controls/radwatermarktextbox/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadWatermarkTextBox {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: watermarktextbox-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} WatermarkTextBox

This tutorial will walk you through the required steps for using __RadWatermarkTextBox__. 

* [Assembly References](#assembly-references)
* [Setting the WatermarkContent](#setting-watermark-content)

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadWatermarkTextBox__ in your application, you need to add reference to the following assembly.

* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadWatermarkTextBox__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Adding RadWatermarkTextBox to the Project 

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadWatermarkTextBox__
{{region radwatermarktextbox-gettingstarted_0}}
	<telerik:RadWatermarkTextBox/>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: Defining RadWatermarkTextBox__
![Defining RadWatermarkTextBox](images/RadWatermarkTextBox_GettingStarted_01.png)

## Setting the WatermarkContent

> __RadWatermarkTextBox__ supports setting its __WatermarkContent__ or __WatermarkTemplate__ for visualizing the needed information. These mechanisms are covered in details in the [Features]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-features%}) topic.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting the WatermarkContent__
{{region radwatermarktextbox-gettingstarted_1}}
	<telerik:RadWatermarkTextBox WatermarkContent="Please enter your name"/>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 2: Setting the WatermarkContent__

![Setting the WatermarkContent](images/RadWatermarkTextBox_GettingStarted_02.png)

## Setting a Theme

The controls from our suite support different themes. You can see how to apply a theme different than the default one in the [Setting a Theme]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%}) help article.

>important Changing the theme using implicit styles will affect all controls that have styles defined in the merged resource dictionaries. This is applicable only for the controls in the scope in which the resources are merged. 

To change the theme, you can follow the steps below:
* Choose between the themes and add reference to the corresponding theme assembly (ex: **Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8.dll**). You can see the different themes applied in the **Theming** examples from our {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[WPF Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/){% else %}[Silverlight Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/silverlight/#GridView/Theming){% endif %} application.

* Merge the ResourceDictionaries with the namespace required for the controls that you are using from the theme assembly. For RadWatermarkTextBox, you will need to merge the following resources:

	* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

__Example 3__ demonstrates how to merge the ResourceDictionaries so that they are applied globally for the entire application.

#### __[XAML] Example 3: Merge the ResourceDictionaries__  
{{region radwatermarktextbox-getting-started_08}}
		<Application.Resources>
			<ResourceDictionary>
				<ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
	                <ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/Themes/System.Windows.xaml"/>
	                <ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/Themes/Telerik.Windows.Controls.xaml"/>
				</ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
			</ResourceDictionary>
		</Application.Resources>
{{endregion}}

__Figure 3__ shows RadWatermarkTextBox with the **Windows8** theme applied.
	
#### __Figure 3: RadWatermarkTextBox with the Windows8 theme__
![Telerik {{ site.framework_name }} RadWatermarkTextBox -windows8](images/RadWatermarkTextBox-windows8.png)

## See also

* [Overview]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-overview%})
* [Features]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-features%})


{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF WatermarkTextBox Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/watermarktextbox.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

Commit message:

Licensing: Add information about the new licensing dll in the Getting Started articles of all controls

controls/radwatermarktextbox/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadWatermarkTextBox {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: watermarktextbox-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} WatermarkTextBox

This tutorial will walk you through the required steps for using __RadWatermarkTextBox__. 

* [Assembly References](#assembly-references)
* [Setting the WatermarkContent](#setting-watermark-content)

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadWatermarkTextBox__ in your application, you need to add reference to the following assemblies:

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadWatermarkTextBox__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Adding RadWatermarkTextBox to the Project 

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadWatermarkTextBox__
{{region radwatermarktextbox-gettingstarted_0}}
	<telerik:RadWatermarkTextBox/>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: Defining RadWatermarkTextBox__
![Defining RadWatermarkTextBox](images/RadWatermarkTextBox_GettingStarted_01.png)

## Setting the WatermarkContent

> __RadWatermarkTextBox__ supports setting its __WatermarkContent__ or __WatermarkTemplate__ for visualizing the needed information. These mechanisms are covered in details in the [Features]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-features%}) topic.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting the WatermarkContent__
{{region radwatermarktextbox-gettingstarted_1}}
	<telerik:RadWatermarkTextBox WatermarkContent="Please enter your name"/>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 2: Setting the WatermarkContent__

![Setting the WatermarkContent](images/RadWatermarkTextBox_GettingStarted_02.png)

## Setting a Theme

The controls from our suite support different themes. You can see how to apply a theme different than the default one in the [Setting a Theme]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%}) help article.

>important Changing the theme using implicit styles will affect all controls that have styles defined in the merged resource dictionaries. This is applicable only for the controls in the scope in which the resources are merged. 

To change the theme, you can follow the steps below:
* Choose between the themes and add reference to the corresponding theme assembly (ex: **Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8.dll**). You can see the different themes applied in the **Theming** examples from our {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[WPF Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/){% else %}[Silverlight Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/silverlight/#GridView/Theming){% endif %} application.

* Merge the ResourceDictionaries with the namespace required for the controls that you are using from the theme assembly. For RadWatermarkTextBox, you will need to merge the following resources:

	* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

__Example 3__ demonstrates how to merge the ResourceDictionaries so that they are applied globally for the entire application.

#### __[XAML] Example 3: Merge the ResourceDictionaries__  
{{region radwatermarktextbox-getting-started_08}}
		<Application.Resources>
			<ResourceDictionary>
				<ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
	                <ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/Themes/System.Windows.xaml"/>
	                <ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/Themes/Telerik.Windows.Controls.xaml"/>
				</ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
			</ResourceDictionary>
		</Application.Resources>
{{endregion}}

__Figure 3__ shows RadWatermarkTextBox with the **Windows8** theme applied.
	
#### __Figure 3: RadWatermarkTextBox with the Windows8 theme__
![Telerik {{ site.framework_name }} RadWatermarkTextBox -windows8](images/RadWatermarkTextBox-windows8.png)

## See also

* [Overview]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-overview%})
* [Features]({%slug radwatermarktextbox-features%})


{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF WatermarkTextBox Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/watermarktextbox.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}
