controls/radcircularprogressbar/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadCircularProgressBar control.
slug: radcircularprogressbar-getting-started
tags: getting started, started, getting
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} CircularProgressBar

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains a `RadCircularProgressBar` control.

## Assembly References

To use RadCircularProgressBar, add a reference to the following assembly:

* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use `RadCircularProgressBar` when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Defining the RadCircularProgressBar

To control the progress of RadCircularProgressBar, utilize its `Value` property. To control the minimum and maximum value of the progress, set the `Minimum` and `Maximum` properties.

>important If the Minimum and Maximum properties are not set, their default values will be used. The Minimum property's default value is __0__. The Maximum property has a value of __1__.

RadCircularProgressBar can be instantiated both in XAML and in code.

#### __[XAML] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in XAML__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-0}}
    <telerik:RadCircularProgressBar Name="radCircularProgressBar" Value="0.75" />    
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in code__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-1}}
    RadCircularProgressBar radCircularProgressBar = new RadCircularProgressBar();
    radCircularProgressBar.Value = 0.75;
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in code__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-2}}
    Dim radCircularProgressBar As RadCircularProgressBar = New RadCircularProgressBar()
    radCircularProgressBar.Value = 0.75
{{endregion}}

![RadCircularProgressBar example](images/radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-0.png)

## Setting a Theme

The controls from our suite support different themes. You can see how to apply a theme different than the default one in the [Setting a Theme]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%}) help article.

>important Changing the theme using implicit styles will affect all controls that have styles defined in the merged resource dictionaries. This is applicable only for the controls in the scope in which the resources are merged. 

* Choose between the themes and add reference to the corresponding theme assembly (ex: __Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8.dll__). You can see the different themes applied in the __Theming__ examples from our {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[WPF Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/){% else %}[Silverlight Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/silverlight/#PanelBar/Theming){% endif %} application.

* Merge the ResourceDictionaries with the namespace required for the controls that you are using from the theme assembly. For the RadCircularProgressBar, you will need to merge the following resources:

	* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

The following example demonstrates how to merge the ResourceDictionaries so that they are applied globally for the entire application.

#### __[XAML] Merge the ResourceDictionaries__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-3}}
    <Application.Resources>
    	<ResourceDictionary>
    		<ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
    			<ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/ Themes/System.Windows.xaml"/>
    			<ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/ Themes/Telerik.Windows.Controls.xaml"/>
    		</ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
    	</ResourceDictionary>
    </Application.Resources>
{{endregion}}

>Alternatively, you can use the theme of the control via the {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[StyleManager](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/wpf/styling-and-appearance/stylemanager/common-styling-apperance-setting-theme-wpf){% else %}[StyleManager](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/silverlight/styling-and-appearance/stylemanager/common-styling-apperance-setting-theme){% endif %}.

The following image shows a RadCircularProgressBar with the __Windows8__ theme applied.

__RadCircularProgressBar with the Windows8 theme__

![RadCircularProgressBar with Windows8 theme](images/radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-1.png)

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF CircularProgressBar Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/circularprogressbar.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
* [Visual Structure](%slug radcircularprogressbar-visual-structure%)
* [States]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-states%})
* [Segments]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-segments%})
* [Color Ranges]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-color-ranges%})

Commit message:

Licensing: Add information about the new licensing dll in the Getting Started articles of all controls

controls/radcircularprogressbar/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadCircularProgressBar control.
slug: radcircularprogressbar-getting-started
tags: getting started, started, getting
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} CircularProgressBar

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains a `RadCircularProgressBar` control.

## Assembly References

To use RadCircularProgressBar, add a reference to the following assemblies:

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use `RadCircularProgressBar` when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Defining the RadCircularProgressBar

To control the progress of RadCircularProgressBar, utilize its `Value` property. To control the minimum and maximum value of the progress, set the `Minimum` and `Maximum` properties.

>important If the Minimum and Maximum properties are not set, their default values will be used. The Minimum property's default value is __0__. The Maximum property has a value of __1__.

RadCircularProgressBar can be instantiated both in XAML and in code.

#### __[XAML] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in XAML__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-0}}
    <telerik:RadCircularProgressBar Name="radCircularProgressBar" Value="0.75" />    
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in code__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-1}}
    RadCircularProgressBar radCircularProgressBar = new RadCircularProgressBar();
    radCircularProgressBar.Value = 0.75;
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Defining RadCircularProgressBar in code__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-2}}
    Dim radCircularProgressBar As RadCircularProgressBar = New RadCircularProgressBar()
    radCircularProgressBar.Value = 0.75
{{endregion}}

![RadCircularProgressBar example](images/radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-0.png)

## Setting a Theme

The controls from our suite support different themes. You can see how to apply a theme different than the default one in the [Setting a Theme]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%}) help article.

>important Changing the theme using implicit styles will affect all controls that have styles defined in the merged resource dictionaries. This is applicable only for the controls in the scope in which the resources are merged. 

* Choose between the themes and add reference to the corresponding theme assembly (ex: __Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8.dll__). You can see the different themes applied in the __Theming__ examples from our {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[WPF Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/){% else %}[Silverlight Controls Examples](https://demos.telerik.com/silverlight/#PanelBar/Theming){% endif %} application.

* Merge the ResourceDictionaries with the namespace required for the controls that you are using from the theme assembly. For the RadCircularProgressBar, you will need to merge the following resources:

	* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

The following example demonstrates how to merge the ResourceDictionaries so that they are applied globally for the entire application.

#### __[XAML] Merge the ResourceDictionaries__
{{region radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-3}}
    <Application.Resources>
    	<ResourceDictionary>
    		<ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
    			<ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/ Themes/System.Windows.xaml"/>
    			<ResourceDictionary Source="/Telerik.Windows.Themes.Windows8;component/ Themes/Telerik.Windows.Controls.xaml"/>
    		</ResourceDictionary.MergedDictionaries>
    	</ResourceDictionary>
    </Application.Resources>
{{endregion}}

>Alternatively, you can use the theme of the control via the {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[StyleManager](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/wpf/styling-and-appearance/stylemanager/common-styling-apperance-setting-theme-wpf){% else %}[StyleManager](https://docs.telerik.com/devtools/silverlight/styling-and-appearance/stylemanager/common-styling-apperance-setting-theme){% endif %}.

The following image shows a RadCircularProgressBar with the __Windows8__ theme applied.

__RadCircularProgressBar with the Windows8 theme__

![RadCircularProgressBar with Windows8 theme](images/radcircularprogressbar-getting-started-1.png)

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF CircularProgressBar Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/circularprogressbar.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
* [Visual Structure](%slug radcircularprogressbar-visual-structure%)
* [States]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-states%})
* [Segments]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-segments%})
* [Color Ranges]({%slug radcircularprogressbar-color-ranges%})
