---
title: BoundColumnBase
page_title: BoundColumnBase
description: Learn how to easily bind data, format it and edit it using editors when it comes to the BoundColumnBase in RadGridView - Telerik's {{ site.framework_name }} DataGrid.
slug: radgridview-columns-column-types-boundcolumnbase
tags: boundcolumnbase
published: True
position: 1
---

# BoundColumnBase

__GridViewBoundColumnBase__ derives from __GridViewColumn__, which means it inherits all of the functionality too. In addition it allows you to easily bind data, format it and edit it using editors. 

Here is a list of the most important properties and methods.

* __DataFormatString__: Allows you to specify formatting for the data displayed in the column via a format string. More about displaying data in the RadGridView - [here]({%slug gridview-columns-data-formatting%}).
			

* __DataMemberBinding__: Allows you to specify the binding to the property, whose value you want to display in the column. More about displaying data in the RadGridView -[here]({%slug gridview-data-overview%}).
			

* __EditorStyle__: Allows you to specify a __Style__ for the editor of the column.
			

* __EditTriggers__: Allows you to specify what action will set the cell in edit mode. The available options are:

	* __CellClick__: A __single click__ will put the cell into edit mode.

	* __CurrentCellClick__: A click on the current cell will put it into edit mode.

	* __Default__: The default setting which combines the __CurrentCellClick__, __F2__ and __TextInput__ values.

	* __F2__: Pressing __F2__ on a cell will put it into edit mode.

	* __None__: No action will put the cell in edit mode.

	* __TextInput__: Any text input will put the current cell into edit mode.	

* __FilteringControlStyle__: allows you to specify a __Style__ for the filtering control.
			

* __IsAutogenerated__: Indicates whether the column is auto generated or not.
			

* __IsReadOnlyBinding__: Defines which cells of the column should be read only. Read more [here]({%slug gridview-read-only-rows-cells%}).
			

* __GetValueForItem(item)__: A method which returns the content of the cell for the provided item.
			

__Example 1: Iterating over cells in all visible columns and accessing their values__

```C#
	var visibleColumns = RadGridView1.Columns.OfType<GridViewBoundColumnBase>()
	                     .Where(c => c.IsVisible)
	                     .OrderBy(c => c.DisplayIndex).ToList();
	for (var i = 0; i < RadGridView1.Items.Count; i++)
	{
	    for (var j = 0; j < visibleColumns.Count; j++)
	    {
	        var value = visibleColumns[j].GetValueForItem(RadGridView1.Items[i]);
	    }
	}
```
