---
title: Data Field Descriptor
page_title: DataFieldDescriptors
description: This article describes the DataFieldDescriptors of RadCardView.
slug: radcardview-features-datafielddescriptors
tags: descriptor,data,field
published: True
position: 0
---

# Data Field Descriptor

__CardDataFieldDescriptor__ is the element describing the data fields of cards in the RadCardView control. 

The descriptors are used to setup the property binding of the data field and to provide several more settings.

## Auto Generating Descriptors

By default the control will try to auto generate descriptors based on the public properties of the objects in the ItemsSource. This means that setting the ItemsSource of RadCardView is enough to use the control and display/edit data fields. 

To interfere in the automatic generation of the CardDataFieldDescriptor objects, use the [AutoGeneratingDataFieldDescriptor]({%slug radcardview-events%}) event. The event handler can be used to cancel the generation of a descriptor, replacing it or customizing its properties.

__Example 1: Canceling the generation of a descriptor for a property named "LastName"__
```C#
	private void cardView_AutoGeneratingDataFieldDescriptor(object sender, CardViewAutoGeneratingDataFieldDescriptorEventArgs e)
	{
		if (e.DataFieldDescriptor.Header.Equals("LastName"))
		{
			e.Cancel = true;
		}
	}
```

## Manual Descriptor Definitions

To control the number of data fields and the properties that should be available in the card, you can disable the automatic generation of descriptors and add them manually. To do this, set the 
__AutoGenerateDataFieldDescriptors__ property of RadCardView to __False__ and use the __DataFieldDescriptors__ collection.

__Example 2: Defining CardDataFieldDescriptors__
```XAML
	<telerik:RadCardView AutoGenerateDataFieldDescriptors="False">
		<telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
			<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor Header="Name" DataMemberBinding="{Binding Name}" />
			<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor Header="Number" DataMemberBinding="{Binding Number}" />
			<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor Header="Category" DataMemberBinding="{Binding Category}" />
		</telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
	</telerik:RadCardView>
```

The __DataMemberBinding__ binding should point to a property of the items in the __ItemsSource__.

>tip See a runnable code snippet in the [Data Binding]({%slug radcardview-populating-with-data-data-binding%}) article.

## Disable Data Field Editing

By default each data field generated by the descriptors can be edited. To disable this, set the __IsReadOnly__ property of CardDataFieldDescriptor.

__Example 3: Setting CardDataFieldDescriptor IsReadOnly property__
```XAML
	<telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
		<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor DataMemberBinding="{Binding Name}" IsReadOnly="True" />
	</telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
```

## Data Field Visibility

The visibility of the data fields in the RadCardView's cards can be toggled via the __IsVisible__ property of CardDataFieldDescriptor.

__Example 4: Setting CardDataFieldDescriptor IsVisible property__
```XAML
	<telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
		<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor DataMemberBinding="{Binding Number}" IsVisible="False" />
	</telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
```

## Display Order

The display order of the data fields in a card is determined by the order of the properties in the underlying class, in case you use the data field descriptor's auto generation feature. When the descriptors are added manually in the DataFieldDescriptors, then the display order is the same as the order of the items in the collection. Additionally, the display order can be controlled via the __DisplayOrder__ property of the CardDataFieldDescriptor element.

__Example 5: Setting CardDataFieldDescriptor DisplayOrder property__
```XAML
	<telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
		<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor DataMemberBinding="{Binding Name}" DisplayOrder="1"/>
		<telerik:CardDataFieldDescriptor DataMemberBinding="{Binding Number}" />
	</telerik:RadCardView.DataFieldDescriptors>
```

## Filtering, Sorting and Grouping

The UI of RadCardView allows you to filter, sort and group the data in the ItemsSource. The descriptor element allows you to customize the corresponding settings.

Read more about the filtering feature in the [Filtering]({%slug radcardview-features-filtering%}) article.

Read more about the filtering feature in the [Sorting]({%slug radcardview-features-sorting%}) article.

Read more about the filtering feature in the [Grouping]({%slug radcardview-features-grouping%}) article.

 By default the property bound to the __DataMemberBinding__ is used for the filtering. To change this, set the __FilterMemberPath__ property which should point to the new property that will be used for the filtering.

The filtering from the UI can be disabled via the __AllowFiltering__ property.

## Customizing Data Fields UI

The UI of the data field's value presenter can be customized using the __EditorTemplate__ property when the data field is in edit mode. To change the element when the data fields is in normal state, then set the __ReadOnlyTemplate__. Read more in the [Customizing Cards]({%slug radcardview-appearance-customizing-groups%}) article.

## Hiding the Data Field Descriptors Button

To hide the button that shows the drop down with all fields ([Data Field Descriptors Button]({%slug radcardview-visual-structure%})), set the `DataFieldDescriptorsButtonVisibility` property of `RadCardView` to `Collapsed`.

__Setting DataFieldDescriptorsButtonVisibility property__
```XAML
	<telerik:RadCardView DataFieldDescriptorsButtonVisibility="Collapsed"/>
```

## See Also
* [Data Binding]({%slug radcardview-populating-with-data-data-binding%})
* [Customizing Groups]({%slug radcardview-appearance-customizing-groups%}) 
* [Customizing Filtering Control]({%slug radcardview-appearance-customizing-filtering-control%}) 
