controls/radmap/features/providers/azuremapprovider.md, before:

---
title: Azure Map Provider
page_title: Azure Map Provider
description: Check our &quot;Azure Map Provider&quot; documentation article for the RadMap WPF control.
slug: radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider
tags: azure, map, azuremap
published: True
position: 9
---

# Azure Map Provider

The `RadMap` control supports visualizing tile data using the [Azure Maps services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/azure-maps/). This is done via the `AzureMapProvider` class. This provider supports both raster and vector sources.

>important The AzureMapProvider class derives from `VectorTileMapProvider`, which works with the Newtonsoft.Json framework. To use the AzureMapProvider, add a reference to the corresponding .dll or install the [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json/).

## Setting the AzureMapProvider

To use this provider, create a new AzureMapProvider instance and add it to the `Providers` collection of the RadMap control. After that, you will need to set the subscription key of the user's Azure account to the `SubscriptionKey` property of the AzureMapProvider instance. To obtain a key, you can review the [Manage authentication in Azure Maps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/azure-maps/how-to-manage-authentication#view-authentication-details/) article.

#### __[XAML] Adding the AzureMapProvider to the RadMap control__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-0}}
    <telerik:RadMap>
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"/>
        </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__RadMap with AzureMapProvider__

![{{ site.framework_name }} RadMap with AzureMapProvider](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-0.png)

>If the provider’s initialization fails, the AzureMapProvider will raise its `InitializationFaulted` event. The event can be fired for example, when the internet connection is lost or when the service is unavailable. The event arguments are of type `InitializationFaultEventArgs` type. The arguments provide an `Error` property which contains the exception that is thrown while initialization.

## Specifying the TileSet

The Azure Maps services provide a set of different map layers ([tilesets](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/maps/render-v2/get-map-tileset?tabs=HTTP#tilesetid)). The AzureMapProvider class will allow you to specify one of these raster or vector tilesets, by setting the `TileSet` property.

#### __[XAML] Specifying the tileset__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-1}}
    <telerik:RadMap x:Name="map">
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"
                                      TileSet="DarkGrey"/>
        </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__AzureMapProvider with specified tileset__

![{{ site.framework_name }} AzureMapProvider with specified tileset](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-1.png)

By default RadMap's navigation UI doesn't display any modes for the AzureMapProvider. To enable this, set the provider's `UserAccessibleModes` collection property.

#### __[XAML] Setting the tileset modes__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-2}}
    <telerik:RadMap>
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"
                                      TileSet="DarkGrey">
                <telerik:AzureMapProvider.UserAccessibleModes>
                    <telerik:AzureTileSet>DarkGrey</telerik:AzureTileSet>
                    <telerik:AzureTileSet>HybridDarkGrey</telerik:AzureTileSet>
                </telerik:AzureMapProvider.UserAccessibleModes>
            </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
        </telerik:AzureMapProvider>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__AzureMapProvider with specified AzureTileSet instances for the UserAccessibleModes property__

![{{ site.framework_name }} AzureMapProvider with specified AzureTileSet instances for the UserAccessibleModes property](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-2.png)

## Styling Vector Tiles via Custom Styles

The RadMap's default styling of vector tiles does not support the vector tiles of the Azure Maps services. Instead, you can use third-party styles to style them, for example, using [TomTom Map Styles](https://developer.tomtom.com/map-display-api/documentation/mapstyles/map-styles). After retrieving the custom style, set it to the `StyleFileSource` property of the AzureMapProvider instance.

## Manually Customizing the Appearance of the Vector Tiles via NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs Event

An alternative approach for styling the vector tiles is via the `NoStyleVectorTileRendering` event. It will be raised for each vector tile before being rendered.

The event arguments of the NoStyleVectorTileRendering event are of the type `NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs` and expose the following properties:

* `ZoomLevel`&mdash;The ZoomLevel property provides the ability to control the zoom level of the vector tile.
* `BackgroundColor`&mdash;This property allows you to specify the background color of the vector tile.
* `Layers`&mdash;Collection that contains `VectorTileLayerRenderInfo` instances.

>important The NoStyleVectorTileRendering event will be raised when the `IgnoreStyle` property of the AzureMapProvider instance is set to `False`.

#### __[C#] Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-3}}
    private void AzureMapsProvider_NoStyleVectorTileRendering(object sender, NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs e)
    {
        VectorTileLayerRenderInfo trafficLayer = e.Layers.Where(x => x.Name == "Traffic flow").FirstOrDefault();
    
        if (trafficLayer != null)
        {
            foreach (VectorTileFeatureRenderInfo featureInfo in trafficLayer.Features)
            {
                // Set layer type 
                featureInfo.LayerType = Telerik.Windows.Controls.Map.VectorTiles.Styles.LayerType.Line;
    
                // Get data values from Properties.
                double trafficValue = (double)featureInfo.Properties["traffic_level"];
    
                if (trafficValue < 0)
                {
                    featureInfo.Cancel = true;
                }
    
                if (!featureInfo.Cancel)
                {
                    featureInfo.Paint.LineWidth = 2;
    
                    this.SetLineColor(featureInfo, trafficValue);
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    private void SetLineColor(VectorTileFeatureRenderInfo featureInfo, double trafficValue)
    {
        if (trafficValue >= 0 && trafficValue < 50)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Green.Color;
        }
        else if (trafficValue >= 50 && trafficValue < 65)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Yellow.Color;
        }
        else if (trafficValue >= 65)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Red.Color;
        }
    }
{{endregion}}

__Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles__

![{{ site.framework_name }} Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-3.png)

>tip You can see an example of this styling approach for the vector tiles and the AzureMapProvider in our [Demos application](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/).

Commit message:

Map: Add attribution copyright information for providers

controls/radmap/features/providers/azuremapprovider.md, after:

---
title: Azure Map Provider
page_title: Azure Map Provider
description: Check our &quot;Azure Map Provider&quot; documentation article for the RadMap WPF control.
slug: radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider
tags: azure, map, azuremap
published: True
position: 9
---

# Azure Map Provider

The `RadMap` control supports visualizing tile data using the [Azure Maps services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/azure-maps/). This is done via the `AzureMapProvider` class. This provider supports both raster and vector sources.

>important The AzureMapProvider class derives from `VectorTileMapProvider`, which works with the Newtonsoft.Json framework. To use the AzureMapProvider, add a reference to the corresponding .dll or install the [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Newtonsoft.Json/).

## Setting the AzureMapProvider

To use this provider, create a new AzureMapProvider instance and add it to the `Providers` collection of the RadMap control. After that, you will need to set the subscription key of the user's Azure account to the `SubscriptionKey` property of the AzureMapProvider instance. To obtain a key, you can review the [Manage authentication in Azure Maps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/azure-maps/how-to-manage-authentication#view-authentication-details/) article.

#### __[XAML] Adding the AzureMapProvider to the RadMap control__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-0}}
    <telerik:RadMap>
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"/>
        </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__RadMap with AzureMapProvider__

![{{ site.framework_name }} RadMap with AzureMapProvider](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-0.png)

>If the provider’s initialization fails, the AzureMapProvider will raise its `InitializationFaulted` event. The event can be fired for example, when the internet connection is lost or when the service is unavailable. The event arguments are of type `InitializationFaultEventArgs` type. The arguments provide an `Error` property which contains the exception that is thrown while initialization.

## Attribution Copyright Label

When using the AzureMapProvider, you have to display an attribution copyright label to the Azure Maps services. To learn more about the accurate copyright label's content, please refer to this [article](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-maps/how-to-show-attribution).

>tip To learn how to customize the RadMap to allocate space for displaying an element containing a sample attribution copyright label, check this [article]({%slug kb-map-copyright-label%}).

## Specifying the TileSet

The Azure Maps services provide a set of different map layers ([tilesets](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/maps/render-v2/get-map-tileset?tabs=HTTP#tilesetid)). The AzureMapProvider class will allow you to specify one of these raster or vector tilesets, by setting the `TileSet` property.

#### __[XAML] Specifying the tileset__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-1}}
    <telerik:RadMap x:Name="map">
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"
                                      TileSet="DarkGrey"/>
        </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__AzureMapProvider with specified tileset__

![{{ site.framework_name }} AzureMapProvider with specified tileset](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-1.png)

By default RadMap's navigation UI doesn't display any modes for the AzureMapProvider. To enable this, set the provider's `UserAccessibleModes` collection property.

#### __[XAML] Setting the tileset modes__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-2}}
    <telerik:RadMap>
        <telerik:RadMap.Providers>
            <telerik:AzureMapProvider SubscriptionKey="Azure_Maps_Subscription_Key"
                                      TileSet="DarkGrey">
                <telerik:AzureMapProvider.UserAccessibleModes>
                    <telerik:AzureTileSet>DarkGrey</telerik:AzureTileSet>
                    <telerik:AzureTileSet>HybridDarkGrey</telerik:AzureTileSet>
                </telerik:AzureMapProvider.UserAccessibleModes>
            </telerik:RadMap.Providers>
        </telerik:AzureMapProvider>
    </telerik:RadMap>
{{endregion}}

__AzureMapProvider with specified AzureTileSet instances for the UserAccessibleModes property__

![{{ site.framework_name }} AzureMapProvider with specified AzureTileSet instances for the UserAccessibleModes property](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-2.png)

## Styling Vector Tiles via Custom Styles

The RadMap's default styling of vector tiles does not support the vector tiles of the Azure Maps services. Instead, you can use third-party styles to style them, for example, using [TomTom Map Styles](https://developer.tomtom.com/map-display-api/documentation/mapstyles/map-styles). After retrieving the custom style, set it to the `StyleFileSource` property of the AzureMapProvider instance.

## Manually Customizing the Appearance of the Vector Tiles via NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs Event

An alternative approach for styling the vector tiles is via the `NoStyleVectorTileRendering` event. It will be raised for each vector tile before being rendered.

The event arguments of the NoStyleVectorTileRendering event are of the type `NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs` and expose the following properties:

* `ZoomLevel`&mdash;The ZoomLevel property provides the ability to control the zoom level of the vector tile.
* `BackgroundColor`&mdash;This property allows you to specify the background color of the vector tile.
* `Layers`&mdash;Collection that contains `VectorTileLayerRenderInfo` instances.

>important The NoStyleVectorTileRendering event will be raised when the `IgnoreStyle` property of the AzureMapProvider instance is set to `False`.

#### __[C#] Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles__
{{region radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-3}}
    private void AzureMapsProvider_NoStyleVectorTileRendering(object sender, NoStyleVectorTileRenderingEventArgs e)
    {
        VectorTileLayerRenderInfo trafficLayer = e.Layers.Where(x => x.Name == "Traffic flow").FirstOrDefault();
    
        if (trafficLayer != null)
        {
            foreach (VectorTileFeatureRenderInfo featureInfo in trafficLayer.Features)
            {
                // Set layer type 
                featureInfo.LayerType = Telerik.Windows.Controls.Map.VectorTiles.Styles.LayerType.Line;
    
                // Get data values from Properties.
                double trafficValue = (double)featureInfo.Properties["traffic_level"];
    
                if (trafficValue < 0)
                {
                    featureInfo.Cancel = true;
                }
    
                if (!featureInfo.Cancel)
                {
                    featureInfo.Paint.LineWidth = 2;
    
                    this.SetLineColor(featureInfo, trafficValue);
                }
            }
        }
    }
    
    private void SetLineColor(VectorTileFeatureRenderInfo featureInfo, double trafficValue)
    {
        if (trafficValue >= 0 && trafficValue < 50)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Green.Color;
        }
        else if (trafficValue >= 50 && trafficValue < 65)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Yellow.Color;
        }
        else if (trafficValue >= 65)
        {
            featureInfo.Paint.LineColor = Brushes.Red.Color;
        }
    }
{{endregion}}

__Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles__

![{{ site.framework_name }} Manually customizing the appearance the vector tiles](images/radmap-features-providers-azuremapprovider-3.png)

>tip You can see an example of this styling approach for the vector tiles and the AzureMapProvider in our [Demos application](https://demos.telerik.com/wpf/).
