controls/radentityframeworkcoredatasource/entityframeworkcore-getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: This article shows how to create a sample .NET Core 3.1 application using RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource and RadGridView.
slug: entityframeworkcore-getting-started
tags: getting,started, entity, framework, core
published: True
position: 3
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource

This article shows how to create a sample .NET application using __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ and __RadGridView__.

> __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ is built on top of [Entity Framework Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/). It is recommended to familiarize yourself with the framework before going over this tutorial.

## Creating the WPF .NET Application

Start Visual Studio 2019 (or newer), select "Create a new project" and choose WPF App (.NET Core).

#### __Figure 1: WPF .NET Application__
![{{ site.framework_name }} (.NET Core) Application](images/entityframeworkcoredatasource-create-new-project.png)

## Adding References

Before we get started, we will add the following NuGet packages.

* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore__
* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer__
* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools__

	The required __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore__ version varies based on the target .NET version of the Telerik dlls.
		
	* __.NET 6__&mdash;EFCore version __6.0.9__
	* __.NET 7__&mdash;EFCore version __7.0.0__
	
	#### __Figure 2: NuGet Packages__
	![NuGet Packages](images/entityframeworkcoredatasource-nugets.png)
	
We will also add the needed Telerik references.

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.Data__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.EntityFrameworkCore__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.GridView__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.Input__
* __Telerik.Windows.Data__

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.EntityFrameworkCore.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Xaml Usage

__Example 1__ demonstrates how you can set up the RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource and display data in a RadGridView. It assumes that you already have a DbContext named "MyEntityModel", which contains a DbSet called "Customers". 

> In case you don't have a DbContext/database setup, you can check out the [MVVM Usage]({%slug entityframeworkcore-mvvm-usage%}) article, which shows how you can set them up from scratch.

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource in xaml__
{{region xaml-entityframeworkcore-getting-started-0}}

    <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource Name="EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource" QueryName="Customers"> 
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext> 
            <local:MyEntityModel/> 
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext> 
    </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource> 
    <telerik:RadGridView ItemsSource="{Binding DataView, ElementName=EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource}"/>
{{endregion}}

## RelatedObjects

The __RelatedObjects__ property of the RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource allows you to specify the names of the related entities that need to be retrieved. For example, if your main entity set is called "Customers", you might want to retrieve the "Orders"  collection in case you want to get the related Orders for each Customer from the database. You can also specify several navigational property names separated by "/" characters and the control will use the ".ThenInclude()" method when retrieving them. 

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Using the RelatedObjects__
{{region xaml-entityframeworkcore-getting-started-1}}

    <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource x:Name="coreDataSource" QueryName="Customers">
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.RelatedObjects>
            <sys:String>Orders/OrderDetails</sys:String>
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.RelatedObjects>
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext>
            <local:NorthwindContext />
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext>
    </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource>
{{endregion}}

## See also

* [RadGridView]({%slug gridview-getting-started2%})

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF EntityFrameworkDataSource Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/entity-framework-data-source.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

Commit message:

Common: Update the controls' Getting Started articles to prioritize the NuGet installation over the assembly references list

controls/radentityframeworkcoredatasource/entityframeworkcore-getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: This article shows how to create a sample .NET Core 3.1 application using RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource and RadGridView.
slug: entityframeworkcore-getting-started
tags: getting,started, entity, framework, core
published: True
position: 3
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource

This article shows how to create a sample .NET application using __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ and __RadGridView__.

> __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ is built on top of [Entity Framework Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/). It is recommended to familiarize yourself with the framework before going over this tutorial.

## Creating the WPF .NET Application

Start Visual Studio 2019 (or newer), select "Create a new project" and choose WPF App (.NET Core).

#### __Figure 1: WPF .NET Application__
![{{ site.framework_name }} (.NET Core) Application](images/entityframeworkcoredatasource-create-new-project.png)

## Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.EntityFrameworkCore.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

## Adding Assembly References Manually

If you are not using NuGet packages, you can add a reference to the following assemblies:

* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore__
* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer__
* __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools__

	The required __Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore__ version varies based on the target .NET version of the Telerik dlls.
		
	* __.NET 6__&mdash;EFCore version __6.0.9__
	* __.NET 7__&mdash;EFCore version __7.0.0__
	
	#### __Figure 2: NuGet Packages__
	![NuGet Packages](images/entityframeworkcoredatasource-nugets.png)
	
We will also add the needed Telerik references.

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.Data__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.EntityFrameworkCore__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.GridView__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls.Input__
* __Telerik.Windows.Data__

## Xaml Usage

__Example 1__ demonstrates how you can set up the RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource and display data in a RadGridView. It assumes that you already have a DbContext named "MyEntityModel", which contains a DbSet called "Customers". 

> In case you don't have a DbContext/database setup, you can check out the [MVVM Usage]({%slug entityframeworkcore-mvvm-usage%}) article, which shows how you can set them up from scratch.

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource in xaml__
{{region xaml-entityframeworkcore-getting-started-0}}

    <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource Name="EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource" QueryName="Customers"> 
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext> 
            <local:MyEntityModel/> 
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext> 
    </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource> 
    <telerik:RadGridView ItemsSource="{Binding DataView, ElementName=EntityFrameworkCoreDataSource}"/>
{{endregion}}

## RelatedObjects

The __RelatedObjects__ property of the RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource allows you to specify the names of the related entities that need to be retrieved. For example, if your main entity set is called "Customers", you might want to retrieve the "Orders"  collection in case you want to get the related Orders for each Customer from the database. You can also specify several navigational property names separated by "/" characters and the control will use the ".ThenInclude()" method when retrieving them. 

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Using the RelatedObjects__
{{region xaml-entityframeworkcore-getting-started-1}}

    <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource x:Name="coreDataSource" QueryName="Customers">
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.RelatedObjects>
            <sys:String>Orders/OrderDetails</sys:String>
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.RelatedObjects>
        <telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext>
            <local:NorthwindContext />
        </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource.DbContext>
    </telerik:RadEntityFrameworkCoreDataSource>
{{endregion}}

## See also

* [RadGridView]({%slug gridview-getting-started2%})

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF EntityFrameworkDataSource Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/entity-framework-data-source.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}
