ai-assistant/mcp-server.md, before:

---
title: MCP Server
page_title: Telerik WPF MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server
description: Learn how to add and use the Telerik WPF MCP Server as a WPF AI coding assistant and code generator for better developer productivity. The Telerik WPF MCP server provides proprietary context about Telerik UI for WPF to AI-powered software.
slug: ai-mcp-server
tags: telerik,WPF,ai,ai server,dotnetWPF,coding assistant
position: 20
---

# Telerik WPF MCP Server

The Telerik WPF [MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) enhances your AI-powered development experience by providing specialized context about Telerik UI for WPF components.

This MCP server enables AI-powered IDEs and tools to generate more accurate, tailored code that leverages [Telerik UI for WPF components](https://www.telerik.com/WPF-ui) and APIs. You can ask complex questions about Telerik components, request specific implementations, and generate comprehensive code solutions.

## Prerequisites

To use the Telerik WPF MCP server, you need:

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) 18 or newer.
* An [MCP-compatible client](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/clients) that supports **MCP tools** (latest version recommended).
* Ensure that MCP servers are enabled in Visual Studio. Also, check if MCP access is managed by your GitHub organization. If that is the case, ensure that the organization allows MCP servers. Otherwise, Copilot won't try loading any MCPs.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/ai-coding-assistant.md#getting-started)

## Server Installation

Install the Telerik WPF MCP server using npm:

```bash
npm i @progress/telerik-wpf-mcp
```

### Server Configuration

Use these settings when configuring the server in your MCP client:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Package Name | `@progress/telerik-wpf-mcp` |
| Type | `stdio` (standard input/output transport) |
| Command | `npx` |
| Arguments | `-y` |
| Server Name | `telerikWpfAssistant` (customizable) |

### License Configuration

Add your [Telerik license key]({%slug installing-license-key%}) as an environment parameter in your `mcp.json` file using one of these options:

__Option 1: License File Path (Recommended)__

 ```json
 "env": {
     "TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE"
 }
 ```
 
The `THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE` should point to the `telerik-license.txt` file, which is usually located in the AppData folder. 
So, the field often will look like this: `"TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "%appdata%/Telerik/telerik-license.txt"`

__Option 2: Direct License Key__

 ```json
 "env": {
     "TELERIK_LICENSE": "YOUR_LICENSE_KEY_HERE"
 }
 ```

> Option 1 is recommended unless you're sharing settings across different systems. Remember to [update your license key]({%slug installing-license-key%}#updating-your-license-key) when necessary.

## Visual Studio Installation

For complete setup instructions, see [Use MCP servers in Visual Studio](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/mcp-servers).

> Early Visual Studio 17.14 versions require the Copilot Chat window to be open when opening a solution for the MCP server to work properly.

### Workspace-Specific Setup:

1. Add `.mcp.json` to your solution folder.

 ```json
 {
   "inputs": [],
   "servers": {
     "telerik-wpf-assistant": {
       "type": "stdio",
       "command": "npx",
       "args": ["-y", "@progress/telerik-wpf-mcp@latest"],
       "env": {
         "TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE",
         // or
         "TELERIK_LICENSE": "YOUR_LICENSE_KEY"
       }
     }
   }
 }
 ```

2. Restart Visual Studio.
3. Enable the `telerik-wpf-assistant` tool in the [Copilot Chat window's tool selection dropdown](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/mcp-servers?view=vs-2022#configuration-example-with-github-mcp-server).

	![](images/ai-mcp-server-0.png)

### Global Setup:

To enable the server globally for all projects, add the `.mcp.json` file to your user directory (`%USERPROFILE%`, e.g., `C:\Users\YourName\.mcp.json`).

## Usage

To use the Telerik MCP Server:

1. Start your prompt with one of these triggers:
   - `/telerik` / `@telerik` / `#telerik`
   - `/telerikwpf` / `@telerikwpf` / `#telerikwpf`
   - `#telerik-wpf-assistant`
   
1. Grant permissions when prompted (per session, workspace, or always).

	![](images/ai-mcp-server-1.png)

1. Start fresh sessions for unrelated prompts to avoid context pollution.

You can check the Output pane of Visual Studio for diagnostics information related to Copilot. To display the relevant information, select to show output from GitHub Copilot.

![](images/ai-mcp-server-2.png)

### Improving Server Usage

To increase the likelihood of the Telerik MCP server being used, add custom instructions to your AI tool:
- [GitHub Copilot custom instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/customizing-copilot/adding-repository-custom-instructions-for-github-copilot#about-repository-custom-instructions-for-github-copilot-chat)

### Sample Prompts

The following examples demonstrate useful prompts for the Telerik WPF MCP Server:

* "`/telerik` Give me an example of binding an ObservableCollection&lt;Customer&gt; to a RadGridView, including sorting and grouping."
* "`/telerikWPF` Create a RadComboBox bound to a list of countries in MVVM, displaying country names but binding the SelectedValue to a CountryCode property."
* "`/telerik` Show XAML and ViewModel code for a RadTreeView bound to a hierarchical ObservableCollection&lt;Category&gt; where each category contains products. Expand all categories by default."

## Number of Requests

@[template](/_contentTemplates/ai-coding-assistant.md#number-of-requests)

## Local AI Model Integration

You can use the Telerik WPF MCP server with local large language models (LLMs):

1. Run a local model, for example, through [Ollama](https://ollama.com).
2. Use a bridge package like [MCP-LLM Bridge](https://github.com/patruff/ollama-mcp-bridge).
3. Connect your local model to the Telerik MCP server.

This setup allows you to use the Telerik AI Coding Assistant without cloud-based AI models.

## See Also

* [Telerik WPF GitHub Copilot Extension]({%slug ai-copilot-extension%})
* [AI Coding Assistant Overview]({%slug ai-overview%})

Commit message:

Added VSX MCP server setup info and changelog for November 2025

ai-assistant/mcp-server.md, after:

---
title: MCP Server
page_title: Telerik WPF MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server
description: Learn how to add and use the Telerik WPF MCP Server as a WPF AI coding assistant and code generator for better developer productivity. The Telerik WPF MCP server provides proprietary context about Telerik UI for WPF to AI-powered software.
slug: ai-mcp-server
tags: telerik,WPF,ai,ai server,dotnetWPF,coding assistant
position: 20
---

# Telerik WPF MCP Server (Manual Installation)

The Telerik WPF [MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) enhances your AI-powered development experience by providing specialized context about Telerik UI for WPF components.

This MCP server enables AI-powered IDEs and tools to generate more accurate, tailored code that leverages [Telerik UI for WPF components](https://www.telerik.com/WPF-ui) and APIs. You can ask complex questions about Telerik components, request specific implementations, and generate comprehensive code solutions.

>tip The MCP server can be [installed also as a NuGet package]({%slug ai-mcp-server-as-a-nuget%}), instead of using __Node.js__ and `npm` commands as shown below.

## Prerequisites

To use the Telerik WPF MCP server, you need:

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) 18 or newer.
* An [MCP-compatible client](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/clients) that supports **MCP tools** (latest version recommended).
* Ensure that MCP servers are enabled in Visual Studio. Also, check if MCP access is managed by your GitHub organization. If that is the case, ensure that the organization allows MCP servers. Otherwise, Copilot won't try loading any MCPs.

@[template](/_contentTemplates/ai-coding-assistant.md#getting-started)

## Server Installation

Install the Telerik WPF MCP server using npm:

```bash
npm i @progress/telerik-wpf-mcp
```

### Server Configuration

Use these settings when configuring the server in your MCP client:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Package Name | `@progress/telerik-wpf-mcp` |
| Type | `stdio` (standard input/output transport) |
| Command | `npx` |
| Arguments | `-y` |
| Server Name | `telerikWpfAssistant` (customizable) |

### License Configuration

Add your [Telerik license key]({%slug installing-license-key%}) as an environment parameter in your `mcp.json` file using one of these options:

__Option 1: License File Path (Recommended)__

 ```json
 "env": {
     "TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE"
 }
 ```
 
The `THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE` should point to the `telerik-license.txt` file, which is usually located in the AppData folder. 
So, the field often will look like this: `"TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "%appdata%/Telerik/telerik-license.txt"`

__Option 2: Direct License Key__

 ```json
 "env": {
     "TELERIK_LICENSE": "YOUR_LICENSE_KEY_HERE"
 }
 ```

> Option 1 is recommended unless you're sharing settings across different systems. Remember to [update your license key]({%slug installing-license-key%}#updating-your-license-key) when necessary.

## Visual Studio Installation

For complete setup instructions, see [Use MCP servers in Visual Studio](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/mcp-servers).

> Early Visual Studio 17.14 versions require the Copilot Chat window to be open when opening a solution for the MCP server to work properly.

### Workspace-Specific Setup:

1. Add `.mcp.json` to your solution folder.

 ```json
 {
   "inputs": [],
   "servers": {
     "telerik-wpf-assistant": {
       "type": "stdio",
       "command": "npx",
       "args": ["-y", "@progress/telerik-wpf-mcp@latest"],
       "env": {
         "TELERIK_LICENSE_PATH": "THE_PATH_TO_YOUR_LICENSE_FILE",
         // or
         "TELERIK_LICENSE": "YOUR_LICENSE_KEY"
       }
     }
   }
 }
 ```

2. Restart Visual Studio.
3. Enable the `telerik-wpf-assistant` tool in the [Copilot Chat window's tool selection dropdown](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/mcp-servers?view=vs-2022#configuration-example-with-github-mcp-server).

	![](images/ai-mcp-server-0.png)

### Global Setup:

To enable the server globally for all projects, add the `.mcp.json` file to your user directory (`%USERPROFILE%`, e.g., `C:\Users\YourName\.mcp.json`).

### Telerik Visual Studio Extension Setup:

The `.mcp.json` file can be created and updated by using the [Telerik Visual Studio Extension]({%slug radcontrols-for-wpf-vs-extensions-overview-wpf%}) menu in Visual Studio.

![](images/ai-mcp-server-1.png)

The `Configure MCP Server Globally` option creates (or updates if existing) the global `%USERPROFILE%\.mcp.json` file and adds  the Telerik server entry.

The `Configure MCP Server for Solution` option is visible only if you have a project opened in Visual Studio. The option creates (or updates if existing) the  `.mcp.json` file in the solution directory.

The `Add/Update GitHub Copilot Instructions` option is visible only if you have a project opened in Visual Studio. The option creates (or updates if existing) an [copilot-instructions.md](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/configure-custom-instructions/add-repository-instructions?tool=visualstudio) file in the `.github\` folder of the solution (`\SolutionDir\.github\copilot-instructions.md`), which includes extra context that is automatically used with the prompt given to the Copilot chat in Visual Studio.

## Usage

To use the Telerik MCP Server:

1. Start your prompt with one of these triggers:
   - `/telerik` / `@telerik` / `#telerik`
   - `/telerikwpf` / `@telerikwpf` / `#telerikwpf`
   - `#telerik-wpf-assistant`
   
1. Grant permissions when prompted (per session, workspace, or always).

	![](images/ai-mcp-server-2.png)

1. Start fresh sessions for unrelated prompts to avoid context pollution.

You can check the Output pane of Visual Studio for diagnostics information related to Copilot. To display the relevant information, select to show output from GitHub Copilot.

![](images/ai-mcp-server-3.png)

### Improving Server Usage

To increase the likelihood of the Telerik MCP server being used, add custom instructions to your AI tool:
- [GitHub Copilot custom instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/customizing-copilot/adding-repository-custom-instructions-for-github-copilot#about-repository-custom-instructions-for-github-copilot-chat)

### Sample Prompts

The following examples demonstrate useful prompts for the Telerik WPF MCP Server:

* "`/telerik` Give me an example of binding an ObservableCollection&lt;Customer&gt; to a RadGridView, including sorting and grouping."
* "`/telerikWPF` Create a RadComboBox bound to a list of countries in MVVM, displaying country names but binding the SelectedValue to a CountryCode property."
* "`/telerik` Show XAML and ViewModel code for a RadTreeView bound to a hierarchical ObservableCollection&lt;Category&gt; where each category contains products. Expand all categories by default."

## Number of Requests

@[template](/_contentTemplates/ai-coding-assistant.md#number-of-requests)

## Local AI Model Integration

You can use the Telerik WPF MCP server with local large language models (LLMs):

1. Run a local model, for example, through [Ollama](https://ollama.com).
2. Use a bridge package like [MCP-LLM Bridge](https://github.com/patruff/ollama-mcp-bridge).
3. Connect your local model to the Telerik MCP server.

This setup allows you to use the Telerik AI Coding Assistant without cloud-based AI models.

## See Also

* [Telerik WPF GitHub Copilot Extension]({%slug ai-copilot-extension%})
* [AI Coding Assistant Overview]({%slug ai-overview%})
