---
title: Developer Focused Examples
page_title: Developer Focused Examples
description: Developer Focused Examples
slug: radchart-sdk-examples
tags: sdk,examples
published: True
position: 1
---

# Developer Focused Examples

The [Telerik XAML SDK repository](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/) provides additional demos for most of the Telerik UI for {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}WPF{% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}Silverlight{% endif %} controls. The examples demonstrate many specific user case scenarios, that might be really helpful. In this article you can find the complete list of all SDK examples for __RadChart__.

## List of all RadChart SDK examples:

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}

* __[Animations](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Animations)__ - When displayed, each chart is nicely animated using default animation settings. AnimationSettings allows you to control how the animation is applied to each series and/or series item:   - ItemDelay - this property specifies the delay for each series item toward the previous one. For example, if you have bar chart, when a bar item animation is started, the next bar item will start its animation with the delay specified by this property.   - TotalSeriesAnimationDuration - specifies how long will take the animation duration for a single series.   - ItemAnimationDuration – specifies how long will take the animation duration of each series item.   - DefaultSeriesDelay - controls when the rendering of the next series should start, compared to the previous one (i.e. the series index is taken into account). For example, if you have three series and DefaultSeriesDelay is set to 10 sec for each of them – the rendering of the 2nd series will begin 10 seconds after the first one is complete, respectively the rendering of the 3rd – 10 seconds after the second is complete. Note: If you set values to ItemDelay and TotalSeriesAnimationDuration, then ItemDelay is omitted and TotalSeriesAnimationDuration is used.
* __[Axes overview](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/AxesOverview)__ - Axes in a chart are used to display the dimensions of the data. The X-axis and the Y-axis are contained in the ChartArea and can be customized in XAML or code-behind.
* __[Categorical charts](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CategoricalCharts)__ - With this feature, the enabled X axis can be used to plot not only values (e.g. number of sales, etc.), but also categories (e.g. months of the year, units, people, etc.). Using a Category axis, the Silverlight Chart treats data as a sequence of non-numerical text labels. The marker is placed according to the position of the category in the sequence. Data is provided per category.
* __[Chart area](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ChartArea)__ - ChartArea is the place, where the chart graphic is drawn. The ChartArea represents a layout region of the RadChart control that holds certain chart series and axis data. Additionally, the ChartArea exposes events for customizing the tooltips and making the chart more interactive.
* __[Chart export](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ChartExport)__ - RadChart allows you to export the chart in several file formats:   - Png - Portable Netwok Graphic. Use RadChart.ExportToImage(Stream).   - Bmp - Bitmap file. Use RadChart.ExportToImage(Stream, BitmapEncoder) where the encoder is of type BmpBitmapEncoder().   - ExcelML - ExcelML file, supported by Office 2003 and above. Use RadChart.ExportToExcelML(Stream).   - Xps - XML Paper Specification file. Use RadChart.ExportToXps(Stream).
* __[Chart legend](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ChartLegend)__ - ChartLegend is used to provide information about the charts shown on the chart area. The ChartLegend has Header, usually some text and items - one for each chart series.
* __[Chart title](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ChartTitle)__ - The ChartTitle is a content control placed at the top of each chart control. It is used to display any title information regarding the visualized chart.
* __[Create data bound chart](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CreateDataBoundChart)__ - This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a RadChart and will show how to:   - Create and bind SplineChart to collection of custom objects using SeriesMapping/ItemMapping   - Create categorical chart
* __[Creating a Chart declaratively](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CreatingAChartDeclaratively)__ - In is useful when you have static data that will not change in time to create a chart declaratively - in XAML. This example will show you how to:   - Add a RadChart and set the DefaultView property  - Add a ChartTitle  - Add a ChartLegend  - Add a ChartArea  - Add a DataSeries
* __[Creating a Chart in code behind](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CreatingAChartInCodeBehind)__ - RadChart provides you with API, which you can use to build the charts you need from code-behind, without using XAML. This example will walk you through the common tasks of:   - Adding RadChart and setting the DefaultView property in the code-behind  - Adding ChartTitle in the code-behind  - Adding ChartLegend in the code-behind  - Adding ChartArea in the code-behind  - Adding DataSeries in the code-behind
* __[Creating a Chart with custom layout](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CreatingAChartWithCustomLayout)__ - If the default layout provided by the RadChart.DefaultView does not fit your scenario, then you can define your own layout where to put all the elements you need. Moreover - you can add as many ChartArea, ChartLegend and ChartTitle as you need. If, for example, you want to show the monthly sales of cars for the year 2009 on one chart and next to it, as a second chart to display the sales per car manufacturer with a legend, then you have to set UseDefaultLayout to False and to define your own. In this example, you have Grid with two rows and three columns. On the first row two ChartTitle elements are placed in the first and the second columns where the chart areas will be placed. On the second row will be added two ChartArea controls in the first two columns and a ChartLegend in the third column.
* __[Custom grid line annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CustomGridLineAnnotation)__ - The Custom Gridline allows you to place a vertical or horizontal gridline at a specific place in your ChartArea. This allows you to mark a specific value on the Y-Axis and/or the X-Axis, which can, for example, serve as a border value. In order to place the Custom GridLine you have to add a CustomGridLine object to the Annotations collection of the ChartArea. You also have to set either its XIntercept or YIntercept properties. These properties allow you to specify the value of the X- and Y-Axis, for which the gridline should be placed.
* __[Custom line annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/CustomLineAnnotation)__ - 
* __[Data binding to many chart areas](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DataBindingToManyChartAreas)__ - RadChart's DefaultView provides you with layout that consists of Chart Title, Chart Area and Chart Legend. However, in some cases, you might need to have more than one ChartArea in order to display two or more charts separately. Of course, you will also need to use data binding via SeriesMapping/ItemMapping in order to populate the RadChart with data.
* __[Data binding to nested collections](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DataBindingToNestedCollections)__ - The purpose of this example is to show you how to populate RadChart with data in a form of nested collections using data binding with manual series mapping.
* __[Data binding with automatic series mappings](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DataBindingWithAutomaticSeriesMappings)__ - One of the features of the RadChart is the automatic series mapping. With automatic series mapping, you can easily create a chart by simply setting the RadChart.ItemsSource to the data source you have. RadChart will create a chart series for every numeric field in the data source by mapping the numeric value to the DataPointMember.YValue field for each respective series. The type of the chart depends on the RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property and by default it is set to BarSeriesDefinition. Note that SeriesDefinition set through the RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property does not support change notifications i.e. if you try to change a RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property after the control is databound, it will not have any effect till the next rebind operation. The recommended approach in this scenario would be to use unique SeriesMapping.SeriesDefinition or alternatively you can access the generated DataSeries directly (i.e. RadChart.DefaultView.ChartArea.DataSeries[i]) and update its DataSeries.Definition properties.
* __[Data binding with manual series mapping](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DataBindingWithManualSeriesMapping)__ - Besides the automatic series mapping, RadChart supports manual series mapping where you have full control on how the data is bound to the chart. The manual series mapping offers the following:   - You can explicitly define which data field from the underlying data source to be bound to which data point member.   - To set labels of the chart series.   - To bind to nested collections.   - To create categorical charts.
* __[Date time grouping](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DateTimeGrouping)__ - When using the standard ChartGroupDescriptor, it is hard to group the data depending on a DateTime field. For example if you want to group the data by month or by year, or even by day, it would be quite impossible. In order to bring this out of the box the RadChart provides you with a set of group descriptors that are capable to group the data via a DateTime field. You have the following descriptors at your disposal:   - ChartSecondGroupDescriptor   - ChartMinuteGroupDescriptor   - ChartHourGroupDescriptor   - ChartDayGroupDescriptor   - ChartMonthGroupDescriptor   - ChartYearGroupDescriptor
* __[Date time support](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DateTimeSupport)__ - Often charts are used to display information for certain period in time. RadChart provides full support of DateTime values and allows you to show dates on the X-Axis.
* __[Drill down hierarchical view](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DrillDownHierarchicalView)__ - The RadChart control displays drill down data in a hierarchical manner. In order to define the different level of the drill down hierarchy you have to use the HierachicalViewDescriptors property of the RadChart control. It is a collection which contains ChartHierarchicalViewDescriptor objects. The ChartHierarchicalViewDescriptor object is used to define a hierarchy level. The level of the descriptor in the hierarchy depends on the position it has in the collection.
* __[Drill down in aSingle chart area](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DrillDownInASingleChartArea)__ - Displaying a drill down chart in a single chart area means that the different hierarchy levels won't be visible at the same time. The chart area will visualize only the currently selected one. 
* __[Drill down in multiple chart areas](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DrillDownInMultipleChartAreas)__ - Displaying drill down charts via the RadChart control can be done in multiple chart areas, whose count depends on the levels of the hierarchy. Of course you can combine drill down in single area and multiple chart areas.
* __[Drill down navigation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/DrillDownNavigation)__ - The RadChart provides you with an API for navigating between the hierarchy levels when using its drill down feature. It can be used via the HierarchicalManager property of the RadChart. The HierarchyManger tracks the history of user navigation through data. Using its Back() and Forward() methods you can enable the user to go back through the levels of hierarchy or forward when they want to follow the same navigation line.
* __[Empty values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/EmptyValues)__ - The Q1 2011 version of the Chart control includes code to support empty/null values. There are many scenarios, in which the property of an object, or a collection of objects, to which the Chart is data bound, is null. Note: RadChart recognizes null values as "empty" and not double.NaN-s.   - In unbound scenarios, you need to explicitly set the DataPoint.IsEmpty property to true as the YValue property is of type double (and not nullable double) for backwards compatibility reasons.   - In bound scenarios you need to use nullable double type to achieve the desired functionality. 
* __[Export to PDF](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ExportToPDF)__ - 
This help topic will demonstrate how to export RadChart and RadGridView controls to PDF document simultaneously. For the purpose you should build the export-to-image functionality and export the image to PDF using our Documents Format Providers (also part of the RadControls suite).
* __[Filtering](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Filtering)__ - The RadChart allows you to programmatically filter its data. This is achieved via the FilterDescriptors property of the RadChart or the FilterDescriptors property of the SeriesMapping. This collection allows you to use descriptors which define the sorting member and the sorting direction for the data to which the RadChart is bound. As this is a collection you are able not only to add, but also to remove or clear the entries in it, too. The items in this collection are of type ChartFilterDescriptor. It exposes a few important properties:   - Member - defines the field of the data object, by which the data will be filtered.   - Operator - defines the operator, which will be applied to the filtering criteria.   - Value - defines the value that will be compared with the value of the Member property via the Operator property. 	 Note: This feature is available in data bound scenarios only!
* __[Flattened series](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/FlattenedSeries)__ - Sometimes when the grouping and aggregation get applied you might want to flatten it, in order to make it appear as one. This is done by combining all data points into one series and can be achieved by just setting the ShouldFlattenSeries property of the GroupingSettings class.
* __[Format expressions](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/FormatExpressions)__ - RadChart supports format expressions, which you can use to format the series items labels, axes labels and tooltip texts. Besides the standard, the custom numeric and the date/time format strings, RadChart supports chart specific format mechanism that allows you to insert context-specific data. 
* __[Grouping and aggregation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/GroupingAndAggregation)__ - RadChart supports grouping and aggregation. Which means that you can group the underlying data and apply one of the supported aggregation functions. This is a very powerful way to build charts that let you summarize business data in seconds. Grouping is a process which groups the data by one or more parameters. RadChart allows you to create charts showing the data grouped by one or more criteria. Using the specified criteria, RadChart will first process and group the data and second, will create as many series as needed in order to visualize the groups properly.
* __[Interactivity](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Interactivity)__ - The main purpose of the charts is to display data in a graphical form. However, ChartArea control exposes numerous events, that allow you to make your charts more interactive. The main ChartArea events that you can use to implement some kind of interactivity are:    - ItemClick - occurs when the user clicks on a series item, for example a bar or a candle.    - ItemToolTipClosing and ItemToolTipOpening - use to customize the ToolTip behavior.
* __[Interactivity effects](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/InteractivityEffects)__ - The hover and selection interactivity effects greatly enhance the data presentation and readability in various business analysis scenarios. Hover and selection interactivity is supported for all 2D series types (note that "selection" for pie and doughnut types is implemented in the form of exploding the respective item slices). The interactivity support is disabled by default and can be controlled through the Interactivity API under SeriesDefinition.InteractivitySettings complex property:   - HoverScope - gets or sets a value indicating the scope of interactivity for hover effects.   - SelectionScope - gets or sets a value indicating the scope of interactivity for selection effects.   - SelectionMode - gets or sets a value indicating the selection mode used by the chart control (single item or multiple items).
* __[Inverse axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/InverseAxis)__ - Since Q2 2011 Inverse Axis feature was released. It allows the axes values of RadChart to be inverted. The IsInverse property can be set independently of the Axis range - it works both with automatic range and custom one (AutoRange = false).
* __[Item width percent and item overlap percent](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ItemWidthPercentAndItemOverlapPercent)__ - In scenarios where you have Bar Charts with multiple series it is possible to control the width of the Bars by using the ItemWidthPercent property of the ChartArea. You can also control to what percentage the bars will overlap the preceding bar series with the ItemOverlapPercent property. Overlapping is especially useful when a long series of items needs to fit in a small-size chart. If you set negative value for ItemOverLapPercent, a gap appears between the bars of different series.
* __[Labels](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Labels)__ - The axes of the RadChart display a label for each of the major ticks. You can specify custom Axis Items Labels by either specifying a XCategory or by manually setting TickPoint's labels. 
* __[Layout mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/LayoutMode)__ - RadChart allows you to modify the layout of the X-axis to better fit the different chart types in the chart area. This will help you to improve the look and feel of your charts. Depending on the selected layout mode, the X-Axis's ticks and labels and also the charts are visualized differently. LayoutMode is property related only to the X-Axis, hence charts without X-Axis, like Pie and Doughnut, do not use it. Each LayoutMode is best to be used with certain chart types:   - Normal - in this mode, the ticks match labels. Best for Line charts and Area charts.   - Inside - ticks match labels; a small margin on both sides is provided for better presentation. Use this for Bubble Charts, Stick and Candlestick charts.   - Between - ticks are margins (labels are between two ticks); a small margin on both sides is provided. Useful for Bar charts.   - Auto - depending on the chart type, RadChart willautomatically select the best LayoutMode. For multi-series charts, layout mode is prioritized in this order: Between, Inside, Normal.
* __[Logarithmic scale](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/LogarithmicScale)__ - If you have a very large range of values on the Y-Axis, the points with the smallest values may not be easily visible. This is because the scale for the Y-Axis will be linear. In this case you can scale the Y-Axis logarithmically, so there is enough space for each value. The logarithmic scaling is calculated automatically, you just have to set the IsLogarithmic property of the YAxis to True.
* __[Marked zone annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/MarkedZoneAnnotation)__ - The Marked Zone feature allows you to place a rectangle inside the ChartArea. This allows you to mark a specific part of it, in order to easily look at all the data that belongs to this area. In order to creat a Marked Zone you have to use the MarkedZone class and add an instance of it to the Annotations collection of the ChartArea. You also have to set its StartY and EndY properties for a rectangle that spans along the entire X-Axis, or the StartX and EndX properties for a rectangle that spans along the entire Y-Axis, or set the four properties at once in order to create a rectangle that is limited in both directions.
* __[Multiple Y Axes](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/MultipleYAxes)__ - 
RadChart supports multiple Y axes. It may be required when series of a different scale should be presented on the same graph. The only thing you have to do is to specify which axis to be used for each series definition.
* __[Multi series charts](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/MultiSeriesCharts)__ - RadChart provides support of multi-series charts. This is useful, when you want to display two or more charts bound to different data series on the same chart area. Usually these data series are semantically related and putting them together allows the user to compare the values easily.
* __[Negative values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/NegativeValues)__ - The RadChart control supports displaying of negative values on both X and Y Axes. You will see that in this type of scenarios the main X and Y Axes don't get translated. Instead of that, additional axes are drawn, which adjust the coordinate system to the negative data. These additional axes are handled by the PlotArea control and it exposes two style properties - PlotAreaAxisXStyle and PlotAreaAxisYStyle, so you can easily modify the appearance of the additional axes. In order to control the visibility of the plot area's axes you can use the PlotAreaAxisVisibility property, which is available both for the x- and the y-axis.
* __[No data control](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/NoDataControl)__ - When RadChart has no data to display, then a text message is shown in each ChartArea. The default message is "No Data Series". If you want to display a different message, use the ChartArea.NoDataString property and set the desired text. If you don't want to use No Data message, just set ChartArea.IsNoDataMessageEnabled to False (which, by default is set to True). In this case, the message and the border will be hidden.
* __[Sampling](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Sampling)__ - When the chart is populated by thousands of items, the visual representation might not be that clear. It is possible that there are two or more DataPoints shown with a very close Y and X values. This is when sampling comes in handy. The chart combines the items, so that the DataPoints are limited to a certain number (200 by default). The sampling engine does not detect/determine whether the datapoints will be on similar pixel coordinates. Instead, it visualizes a subset of the original data. For example, if you have 1000 points, 95% of which are clustered together, and you choose a sampling threshold of 300 points, 95% of these 300 points will be clustered as well. In such a scenario, one possible option is to use Zooming and Scrolling. Sampling is available in data binding scenarios only. Sampling is also not applicable when plotting data for properties of non-CLS compliant types, like uint.
* __[Smart labels](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/SmartLabels)__ - For charts that have many data points or data points with values close to one another, labels tend to collide, thus creating a readability problem. The Smart Labels feature automatically re-aligns labels, making each value's label stand out clearly. You are also able to configure the settings for the Smart Labels. This example will show how to:   - Enable/Disable Smart Labels feature   - Configure the Smart Labels feature
* __[Sorting](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Sorting)__ - The RadChart allows you to programmatically sort its data. This is achieved via the SortDescriptors property of the RadChart or the SortDescriptors property of the SeriesMapping. This collection allows you to use descriptors which define the sorting member and the sorting direction for the data to which the RadChart is bound. As this is a collection, you are able not only to add, but to remove or clear the entries in it, too. The items in this collection are of type ChartSortDescriptor. It exposes two important properties:   - Member - defines the property of the data object, by which the data will be sorted.   - SortDirection - defines the sorting direction.
* __[Strip lines and grid lines](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/StripLinesAndGridLines)__ - In order to improve the readability of the chart, you can use strip lines and grid lines. Besides, for Y-Axis you can also show grid lines for the minor ticks.
* __[Styling the axis line](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/StylingTheAxisLine)__ - The approach here will allow you to more completely change the appearance of the axis lines, but if you want to change only the color of it, you can use the AxisElementBrush property of the RadChart. Note that the value of this property will get applied to all of the axes and all of the tick lines as well.
* __[Styling the chart title](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/StylingTheChartTitle)__ - The RadChart Title can be styled by creating an appropriate Style and setting it to the Style property of the ChartTitle (located inside the chart's DefaultView property). 
* __[Ticks](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Ticks)__ - The ticks are part of the chart axes and are typically used to mark a specific value on the axis. There are two types of ticks - minor and major. The major ticks always represent the primary axis values. The minor ticks are used for more readable visualization of the data values. To control the visibility of the ticks you have to use one fo the following properties:    - MajorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the major ticks should be visible.    - MinorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the minor ticks should be visible.    - MinorTickPointMultiplier - specifies the number of minor ticks per major tick, i.e the number of the minor ticks between two major ticks. The number of ticks is always equal to the (MinorTickPointMultiplier - 1) as the multiplier rerpesents the count of chuks defined by the minor ticks between two major ticks. For example in order to have 3 chunks the Axis will need 2 minor ticks to allocate them.
* __[Tooltips](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/Tooltips)__ - RadChart provides support for displaying tooltips when the mouse cursor hovers over the respective series items. The tooltips are disabled by default but you can enable them by setting the SeriesDefinition.ShowItemToolTips to True. Moreover, you can enable the functionality for one series and disable it for another in the same chart area. Additionally, you can change the default tooltip format by using SeriesDefinition.ItemToolTipFormat property or you can completely customize the tooltip content by using the ChartArea.ItemToolTipOpening and ChartArea.ItemToolTipClosing events.
* __[X Axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/XAxis)__ - This example shows only the properties that are specific to the X-axis. If you want to learn more about the properties that are common to both X and Y axes take a look at the Axes Overview example.Besides those common properties X-axis has some specific properties, explained in the list below:   - IsDateTime - indicates where the values for the X-axis are considered as dates.  - LayoutMode - specifies the LayoutMode applied on the horizontal axis.  - LabelRotationAngle - specifies the value indicating the rotation angle for the X-axis labels. Use when label texts are long and are overlapping each-other.  - LabelStep - specifies the value indicating that only one out of n-axis labels should be visible, where n is the value of the property.  - TicksDistance - specifies a value indicating that every axis tick should be placed at least X pixels away from the next one, where X is the value of the property. Use when you have too much data to display on the X-axis to control the number of ticks shown.  - StepLabelLevelCount - gets or sets the number of levels (steps) that will be used to distribute the axis item labels.  - StepLabelLevelHeight - gets or sets the height of each step label level (row).
* __[Y Axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/YAxis)__ - This example demonstrates only the properties that are specific to the Y-axis. If you want to learn more about the properties that are common to both X and Y axes take a look at the Axes Overview example. Besides those common properties, Y-axis has some specific properties, explained in the list below:   - MinorTickPointMultiplier - specifies the number of minor ticks per major tick, i.e the number of the minor ticks between two major ticks.  - MinorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the minor tick marks on the axis should be visible.  - MinorGridLinesVisibility - specifies whether the minor axis grid lines should be visible. See Striplines and Gridlines.  - ExtendDirection - specifies the direction in which the axis range should be extended.
* __[Zooming and scrolling](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/WPF/ZoomingAndScrolling)__ - Sometimes, when having a large sets of data, they are hard to visualize, because the points have to be rendered in space greater than what is available for the RadChart. In this case you can use not only the Sampling feature of the RadChart, but Zooming and Scrolling as well. Note: This feature is available in data bound scenarios only! Additional requirement is an ItemMapping with DataPointMember set to XValue or XCategory.
{% endif %}
{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}
* __[Animations](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Animations)__ - When displayed, each chart is nicely animated using default animation settings. AnimationSettings allows you to control how the animation is applied to each series and/or series item:   - ItemDelay - this property specifies the delay for each series item toward the previous one. For example, if you have bar chart, when a bar item animation is started, the next bar item will start its animation with the delay specified by this property.   - TotalSeriesAnimationDuration - specifies how long will take the animation duration for a single series.   - ItemAnimationDuration – specifies how long will take the animation duration of each series item.   - DefaultSeriesDelay - controls when the rendering of the next series should start, compared to the previous one (i.e. the series index is taken into account). For example, if you have three series and DefaultSeriesDelay is set to 10 sec for each of them – the rendering of the 2nd series will begin 10 seconds after the first one is complete, respectively the rendering of the 3rd – 10 seconds after the second is complete. Note: If you set values to ItemDelay and TotalSeriesAnimationDuration, then ItemDelay is omitted and TotalSeriesAnimationDuration is used.
* __[Axes overview](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/AxesOverview)__ - Axes in a chart are used to display the dimensions of the data. The X-axis and the Y-axis are contained in the ChartArea and can be customized in XAML or code-behind.
* __[Categorical charts](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CategoricalCharts)__ - With this feature, the enabled X axis can be used to plot not only values (e.g. number of sales, etc.), but also categories (e.g. months of the year, units, people, etc.). Using a Category axis, the Silverlight Chart treats data as a sequence of non-numerical text labels. The marker is placed according to the position of the category in the sequence. Data is provided per category.
* __[Chart area](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ChartArea)__ - ChartArea is the place, where the chart graphic is drawn. The ChartArea represents a layout region of the RadChart control that holds certain chart series and axis data. Additionally, the ChartArea exposes events for customizing the tooltips and making the chart more interactive.
* __[Chart export](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ChartExport)__ - RadChart allows you to export the chart in several file formats:   - Png - Portable Netwok Graphic. Use RadChart.ExportToImage(Stream).   - Bmp - Bitmap file. Use RadChart.ExportToImage(Stream, BitmapEncoder) where the encoder is of type BmpBitmapEncoder().   - ExcelML - ExcelML file, supported by Office 2003 and above. Use RadChart.ExportToExcelML(Stream).   - Xps - XML Paper Specification file. Use RadChart.ExportToXps(Stream).
* __[Chart legend](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ChartLegend)__ - ChartLegend is used to provide information about the charts shown on the chart area. The ChartLegend has Header, usually some text and items - one for each chart series.
* __[Chart title](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ChartTitle)__ - The ChartTitle is a content control placed at the top of each chart control. It is used to display any title information regarding the visualized chart.
* __[Create data bound chart](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CreateDataBoundChart)__ - This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a RadChart and will show how to:   - Create and bind SplineChart to collection of custom objects using SeriesMapping/ItemMapping   - Create categorical chart
* __[Creating a Chart declaratively](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CreatingAChartDeclaratively)__ - In is useful when you have static data that will not change in time to create a chart declaratively - in XAML. This example will show you how to:   - Add a RadChart and set the DefaultView property  - Add a ChartTitle  - Add a ChartLegend  - Add a ChartArea  - Add a DataSeries
* __[Creating a Chart in code behind](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CreatingAChartInCodeBehind)__ - RadChart provides you with API, which you can use to build the charts you need from code-behind, without using XAML. This example will walk you through the common tasks of:   - Adding RadChart and setting the DefaultView property in the code-behind  - Adding ChartTitle in the code-behind  - Adding ChartLegend in the code-behind  - Adding ChartArea in the code-behind  - Adding DataSeries in the code-behind
* __[Creating a Chart with custom layout](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CreatingAChartWithCustomLayout)__ - If the default layout provided by the RadChart.DefaultView does not fit your scenario, then you can define your own layout where to put all the elements you need. Moreover - you can add as many ChartArea, ChartLegend and ChartTitle as you need. If, for example, you want to show the monthly sales of cars for the year 2009 on one chart and next to it, as a second chart to display the sales per car manufacturer with a legend, then you have to set UseDefaultLayout to False and to define your own. In this example, you have Grid with two rows and three columns. On the first row two ChartTitle elements are placed in the first and the second columns where the chart areas will be placed. On the second row will be added two ChartArea controls in the first two columns and a ChartLegend in the third column.
* __[Custom grid line annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CustomGridLineAnnotation)__ - The Custom Gridline allows you to place a vertical or horizontal gridline at a specific place in your ChartArea. This allows you to mark a specific value on the Y-Axis and/or the X-Axis, which can, for example, serve as a border value. In order to place the Custom GridLine you have to add a CustomGridLine object to the Annotations collection of the ChartArea. You also have to set either its XIntercept or YIntercept properties. These properties allow you to specify the value of the X- and Y-Axis, for which the gridline should be placed.
* __[Custom line annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/CustomLineAnnotation)__ - 
* __[Data binding to many chart areas](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DataBindingToManyChartAreas)__ - RadChart's DefaultView provides you with layout that consists of Chart Title, Chart Area and Chart Legend. However, in some cases, you might need to have more than one ChartArea in order to display two or more charts separately. Of course, you will also need to use data binding via SeriesMapping/ItemMapping in order to populate the RadChart with data.
* __[Data binding to nested collections](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DataBindingToNestedCollections)__ - The purpose of this example is to show you how to populate RadChart with data in a form of nested collections using data binding with manual series mapping.
* __[Data binding with automatic series mappings](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DataBindingWithAutomaticSeriesMappings)__ - One of the features of the RadChart is the automatic series mapping. With automatic series mapping, you can easily create a chart by simply setting the RadChart.ItemsSource to the data source you have. RadChart will create a chart series for every numeric field in the data source by mapping the numeric value to the DataPointMember.YValue field for each respective series. The type of the chart depends on the RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property and by default it is set to BarSeriesDefinition. Note that SeriesDefinition set through the RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property does not support change notifications i.e. if you try to change a RadChart.DefaultSeriesDefinition property after the control is databound, it will not have any effect till the next rebind operation. The recommended approach in this scenario would be to use unique SeriesMapping.SeriesDefinition or alternatively you can access the generated DataSeries directly (i.e. RadChart.DefaultView.ChartArea.DataSeries[i]) and update its DataSeries.Definition properties.
* __[Data binding with manual series mapping](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DataBindingWithManualSeriesMapping)__ - Besides the automatic series mapping, RadChart supports manual series mapping where you have full control on how the data is bound to the chart. The manual series mapping offers the following:   - You can explicitly define which data field from the underlying data source to be bound to which data point member.   - To set labels of the chart series.   - To bind to nested collections.   - To create categorical charts.
* __[Date time grouping](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DateTimeGrouping)__ - When using the standard ChartGroupDescriptor, it is hard to group the data depending on a DateTime field. For example if you want to group the data by month or by year, or even by day, it would be quite impossible. In order to bring this out of the box the RadChart provides you with a set of group descriptors that are capable to group the data via a DateTime field. You have the following descriptors at your disposal:   - ChartSecondGroupDescriptor   - ChartMinuteGroupDescriptor   - ChartHourGroupDescriptor   - ChartDayGroupDescriptor   - ChartMonthGroupDescriptor   - ChartYearGroupDescriptor
* __[Date time support](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DateTimeSupport)__ - Often charts are used to display information for certain period in time. RadChart provides full support of DateTime values and allows you to show dates on the X-Axis.
* __[Drill down hierarchical view](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DrillDownHierarchicalView)__ - The RadChart control displays drill down data in a hierarchical manner. In order to define the different level of the drill down hierarchy you have to use the HierachicalViewDescriptors property of the RadChart control. It is a collection which contains ChartHierarchicalViewDescriptor objects. The ChartHierarchicalViewDescriptor object is used to define a hierarchy level. The level of the descriptor in the hierarchy depends on the position it has in the collection.
* __[Drill down in aSingle chart area](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DrillDownInASingleChartArea)__ - Displaying a drill down chart in a single chart area means that the different hierarchy levels won't be visible at the same time. The chart area will visualize only the currently selected one. 
* __[Drill down in multiple chart areas](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DrillDownInMultipleChartAreas)__ - Displaying drill down charts via the RadChart control can be done in multiple chart areas, whose count depends on the levels of the hierarchy. Of course you can combine drill down in single area and multiple chart areas.
* __[Drill down navigation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/DrillDownNavigation)__ - The RadChart provides you with an API for navigating between the hierarchy levels when using its drill down feature. It can be used via the HierarchicalManager property of the RadChart. The HierarchyManger tracks the history of user navigation through data. Using its Back() and Forward() methods you can enable the user to go back through the levels of hierarchy or forward when they want to follow the same navigation line.
* __[Empty values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/EmptyValues)__ - The Q1 2011 version of the Chart control includes code to support empty/null values. There are many scenarios, in which the property of an object, or a collection of objects, to which the Chart is data bound, is null. Note: RadChart recognizes null values as "empty" and not double.NaN-s.   - In unbound scenarios, you need to explicitly set the DataPoint.IsEmpty property to true as the YValue property is of type double (and not nullable double) for backwards compatibility reasons.   - In bound scenarios you need to use nullable double type to achieve the desired functionality. 
* __[Export to PDF](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ExportToPDF)__ - 
This help topic will demonstrate how to export RadChart and RadGridView controls to PDF document simultaneously. For the purpose you should build the export-to-image functionality and export the image to PDF using our Documents Format Providers (also part of the RadControls suite).
* __[Filtering](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Filtering)__ - The RadChart allows you to programmatically filter its data. This is achieved via the FilterDescriptors property of the RadChart or the FilterDescriptors property of the SeriesMapping. This collection allows you to use descriptors which define the sorting member and the sorting direction for the data to which the RadChart is bound. As this is a collection you are able not only to add, but also to remove or clear the entries in it, too. The items in this collection are of type ChartFilterDescriptor. It exposes a few important properties:   - Member - defines the field of the data object, by which the data will be filtered.   - Operator - defines the operator, which will be applied to the filtering criteria.   - Value - defines the value that will be compared with the value of the Member property via the Operator property. 	 Note: This feature is available in data bound scenarios only!
* __[Flattened series](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/FlattenedSeries)__ - Sometimes when the grouping and aggregation get applied you might want to flatten it, in order to make it appear as one. This is done by combining all data points into one series and can be achieved by just setting the ShouldFlattenSeries property of the GroupingSettings class.
* __[Format expressions](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/FormatExpressions)__ - RadChart supports format expressions, which you can use to format the series items labels, axes labels and tooltip texts. Besides the standard, the custom numeric and the date/time format strings, RadChart supports chart specific format mechanism that allows you to insert context-specific data. 
* __[Grouping and aggregation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/GroupingAndAggregation)__ - RadChart supports grouping and aggregation. Which means that you can group the underlying data and apply one of the supported aggregation functions. This is a very powerful way to build charts that let you summarize business data in seconds. Grouping is a process which groups the data by one or more parameters. RadChart allows you to create charts showing the data grouped by one or more criteria. Using the specified criteria, RadChart will first process and group the data and second, will create as many series as needed in order to visualize the groups properly.
* __[Interactivity](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Interactivity)__ - The main purpose of the charts is to display data in a graphical form. However, ChartArea control exposes numerous events, that allow you to make your charts more interactive. The main ChartArea events that you can use to implement some kind of interactivity are:    - ItemClick - occurs when the user clicks on a series item, for example a bar or a candle.    - ItemToolTipClosing and ItemToolTipOpening - use to customize the ToolTip behavior.
* __[Interactivity effects](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/InteractivityEffects)__ - The hover and selection interactivity effects greatly enhance the data presentation and readability in various business analysis scenarios. Hover and selection interactivity is supported for all 2D series types (note that "selection" for pie and doughnut types is implemented in the form of exploding the respective item slices). The interactivity support is disabled by default and can be controlled through the Interactivity API under SeriesDefinition.InteractivitySettings complex property:   - HoverScope - gets or sets a value indicating the scope of interactivity for hover effects.   - SelectionScope - gets or sets a value indicating the scope of interactivity for selection effects.   - SelectionMode - gets or sets a value indicating the selection mode used by the chart control (single item or multiple items).
* __[Inverse axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/InverseAxis)__ - Since Q2 2011 Inverse Axis feature was released. It allows the axes values of RadChart to be inverted. The IsInverse property can be set independently of the Axis range - it works both with automatic range and custom one (AutoRange = false).
* __[Item width percent and item overlap percent](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ItemWidthPercentAndItemOverlapPercent)__ - In scenarios where you have Bar Charts with multiple series it is possible to control the width of the Bars by using the ItemWidthPercent property of the ChartArea. You can also control to what percentage the bars will overlap the preceding bar series with the ItemOverlapPercent property. Overlapping is especially useful when a long series of items needs to fit in a small-size chart. If you set negative value for ItemOverLapPercent, a gap appears between the bars of different series.
* __[Labels](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Labels)__ - The axes of the RadChart display a label for each of the major ticks. You can specify custom Axis Items Labels by either specifying a XCategory or by manually setting TickPoint's labels. 
* __[Layout mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/LayoutMode)__ - RadChart allows you to modify the layout of the X-axis to better fit the different chart types in the chart area. This will help you to improve the look and feel of your charts. Depending on the selected layout mode, the X-Axis's ticks and labels and also the charts are visualized differently. LayoutMode is property related only to the X-Axis, hence charts without X-Axis, like Pie and Doughnut, do not use it. Each LayoutMode is best to be used with certain chart types:   - Normal - in this mode, the ticks match labels. Best for Line charts and Area charts.   - Inside - ticks match labels; a small margin on both sides is provided for better presentation. Use this for Bubble Charts, Stick and Candlestick charts.   - Between - ticks are margins (labels are between two ticks); a small margin on both sides is provided. Useful for Bar charts.   - Auto - depending on the chart type, RadChart willautomatically select the best LayoutMode. For multi-series charts, layout mode is prioritized in this order: Between, Inside, Normal.
* __[Logarithmic scale](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/LogarithmicScale)__ - If you have a very large range of values on the Y-Axis, the points with the smallest values may not be easily visible. This is because the scale for the Y-Axis will be linear. In this case you can scale the Y-Axis logarithmically, so there is enough space for each value. The logarithmic scaling is calculated automatically, you just have to set the IsLogarithmic property of the YAxis to True.
* __[Marked zone annotation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/MarkedZoneAnnotation)__ - The Marked Zone feature allows you to place a rectangle inside the ChartArea. This allows you to mark a specific part of it, in order to easily look at all the data that belongs to this area. In order to creat a Marked Zone you have to use the MarkedZone class and add an instance of it to the Annotations collection of the ChartArea. You also have to set its StartY and EndY properties for a rectangle that spans along the entire X-Axis, or the StartX and EndX properties for a rectangle that spans along the entire Y-Axis, or set the four properties at once in order to create a rectangle that is limited in both directions.
* __[Multiple Y Axes](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/MultipleYAxes)__ - 
RadChart supports multiple Y axes. It may be required when series of a different scale should be presented on the same graph. The only thing you have to do is to specify which axis to be used for each series definition.
* __[Multi series charts](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/MultiSeriesCharts)__ - RadChart provides support of multi-series charts. This is useful, when you want to display two or more charts bound to different data series on the same chart area. Usually these data series are semantically related and putting them together allows the user to compare the values easily.
* __[Negative values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/NegativeValues)__ - The RadChart control supports displaying of negative values on both X and Y Axes. You will see that in this type of scenarios the main X and Y Axes don't get translated. Instead of that, additional axes are drawn, which adjust the coordinate system to the negative data. These additional axes are handled by the PlotArea control and it exposes two style properties - PlotAreaAxisXStyle and PlotAreaAxisYStyle, so you can easily modify the appearance of the additional axes. In order to control the visibility of the plot area's axes you can use the PlotAreaAxisVisibility property, which is available both for the x- and the y-axis.
* __[No data control](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/NoDataControl)__ - When RadChart has no data to display, then a text message is shown in each ChartArea. The default message is "No Data Series". If you want to display a different message, use the ChartArea.NoDataString property and set the desired text. If you don't want to use No Data message, just set ChartArea.IsNoDataMessageEnabled to False (which, by default is set to True). In this case, the message and the border will be hidden.
* __[Sampling](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Sampling)__ - When the chart is populated by thousands of items, the visual representation might not be that clear. It is possible that there are two or more DataPoints shown with a very close Y and X values. This is when sampling comes in handy. The chart combines the items, so that the DataPoints are limited to a certain number (200 by default). The sampling engine does not detect/determine whether the datapoints will be on similar pixel coordinates. Instead, it visualizes a subset of the original data. For example, if you have 1000 points, 95% of which are clustered together, and you choose a sampling threshold of 300 points, 95% of these 300 points will be clustered as well. In such a scenario, one possible option is to use Zooming and Scrolling. Sampling is available in data binding scenarios only. Sampling is also not applicable when plotting data for properties of non-CLS compliant types, like uint.
* __[Smart labels](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/SmartLabels)__ - For charts that have many data points or data points with values close to one another, labels tend to collide, thus creating a readability problem. The Smart Labels feature automatically re-aligns labels, making each value's label stand out clearly. You are also able to configure the settings for the Smart Labels. This example will show how to:   - Enable/Disable Smart Labels feature   - Configure the Smart Labels feature
* __[Sorting](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Sorting)__ - The RadChart allows you to programmatically sort its data. This is achieved via the SortDescriptors property of the RadChart or the SortDescriptors property of the SeriesMapping. This collection allows you to use descriptors which define the sorting member and the sorting direction for the data to which the RadChart is bound. As this is a collection, you are able not only to add, but to remove or clear the entries in it, too. The items in this collection are of type ChartSortDescriptor. It exposes two important properties:   - Member - defines the property of the data object, by which the data will be sorted.   - SortDirection - defines the sorting direction.
* __[Strip lines and grid lines](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/StripLinesAndGridLines)__ - In order to improve the readability of the chart, you can use strip lines and grid lines. Besides, for Y-Axis you can also show grid lines for the minor ticks.
* __[Styling the axis line](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/StylingTheAxisLine)__ - The approach here will allow you to more completely change the appearance of the axis lines, but if you want to change only the color of it, you can use the AxisElementBrush property of the RadChart. Note that the value of this property will get applied to all of the axes and all of the tick lines as well.
* __[Styling the chart title](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/StylingTheChartTitle)__ - The RadChart Title can be styled by creating an appropriate Style and setting it to the Style property of the ChartTitle (located inside the chart's DefaultView property). 
* __[Ticks](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Ticks)__ - The ticks are part of the chart axes and are typically used to mark a specific value on the axis. There are two types of ticks - minor and major. The major ticks always represent the primary axis values. The minor ticks are used for more readable visualization of the data values. To control the visibility of the ticks you have to use one fo the following properties:    - MajorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the major ticks should be visible.    - MinorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the minor ticks should be visible.    - MinorTickPointMultiplier - specifies the number of minor ticks per major tick, i.e the number of the minor ticks between two major ticks. The number of ticks is always equal to the (MinorTickPointMultiplier - 1) as the multiplier rerpesents the count of chuks defined by the minor ticks between two major ticks. For example in order to have 3 chunks the Axis will need 2 minor ticks to allocate them.
* __[Tooltips](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/Tooltips)__ - RadChart provides support for displaying tooltips when the mouse cursor hovers over the respective series items. The tooltips are disabled by default but you can enable them by setting the SeriesDefinition.ShowItemToolTips to True. Moreover, you can enable the functionality for one series and disable it for another in the same chart area. Additionally, you can change the default tooltip format by using SeriesDefinition.ItemToolTipFormat property or you can completely customize the tooltip content by using the ChartArea.ItemToolTipOpening and ChartArea.ItemToolTipClosing events.
* __[X Axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/XAxis)__ - This example shows only the properties that are specific to the X-axis. If you want to learn more about the properties that are common to both X and Y axes take a look at the Axes Overview example.Besides those common properties X-axis has some specific properties, explained in the list below:   - IsDateTime - indicates where the values for the X-axis are considered as dates.  - LayoutMode - specifies the LayoutMode applied on the horizontal axis.  - LabelRotationAngle - specifies the value indicating the rotation angle for the X-axis labels. Use when label texts are long and are overlapping each-other.  - LabelStep - specifies the value indicating that only one out of n-axis labels should be visible, where n is the value of the property.  - TicksDistance - specifies a value indicating that every axis tick should be placed at least X pixels away from the next one, where X is the value of the property. Use when you have too much data to display on the X-axis to control the number of ticks shown.  - StepLabelLevelCount - gets or sets the number of levels (steps) that will be used to distribute the axis item labels.  - StepLabelLevelHeight - gets or sets the height of each step label level (row).
* __[Y Axis](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/YAxis)__ - This example demonstrates only the properties that are specific to the Y-axis. If you want to learn more about the properties that are common to both X and Y axes take a look at the Axes Overview example. Besides those common properties, Y-axis has some specific properties, explained in the list below:   - MinorTickPointMultiplier - specifies the number of minor ticks per major tick, i.e the number of the minor ticks between two major ticks.  - MinorTicksVisibility - specifies whether the minor tick marks on the axis should be visible.  - MinorGridLinesVisibility - specifies whether the minor axis grid lines should be visible. See Striplines and Gridlines.  - ExtendDirection - specifies the direction in which the axis range should be extended.
* __[Zooming and scrolling](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Chart/SL/ZoomingAndScrolling)__ - Sometimes, when having a large sets of data, they are hard to visualize, because the points have to be rendered in space greater than what is available for the RadChart. In this case you can use not only the Sampling feature of the RadChart, but Zooming and Scrolling as well. Note: This feature is available in data bound scenarios only! Additional requirement is an ItemMapping with DataPointMember set to XValue or XCategory.
{% endif %}

>You can also check the [SDK Samples Browser]({%slug sdk-samples-browser%}) that provides a more convenient approach in exploring and executing the examples in the Telerik XAML SDK repository. The SDK Samples Browser application is available for download from [this link](http://demos.telerik.com/xaml-sdkbrowser/).