controls/radlegend/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadLegend {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: radlegend-getting-started
tags: getting,started,legend
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} Legend

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains __RadLegend__.

* [Assembly references](#assembly-references)
* [Defining RadLegend and Adding Items](#defining-radlegend-and-adding-items)
* [Customizing the Legend Items](#customizing-the-legend-items)
* [Changing the Items Panel](#changing-the-items-panel)

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadLegend__, you will need to add a reference to the __Telerik.Windows.Controls__ assembly.

You can find the required assemblies for each control from the suite in the {% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies%}){% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies-wpf%}){% endif %} help article.

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadLegend__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Defining RadLegend and Adding Items

The RadLegend control is populated with data via its __Items__ collection. The collection is of type __LegendItemCollection__ and can be populated only with __LegendItem__ objects. By default the Items property is *null*.

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadLegend in XAML__
{{region radlegend-getting-started-0}}
	<telerik:RadLegend>
	    <telerik:RadLegend.Items>
	        <telerik:LegendItemCollection>
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FF55AA33" Title="Legend item 1" />
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FFCC3399" Title="Legend item 2" />
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FF5511BB" Title="Legend item 3" />
	        </telerik:LegendItemCollection>
	    </telerik:RadLegend.Items>
	</telerik:RadLegend>
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Example 2: Defining RadLegend in code__
{{region radlegend-getting-started-1}}
	RadLegend legend = new RadLegend();
	legend.Items = new LegendItemCollection()
	{
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 1", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FF55AA33")) },
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 2", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FFCC3399")) },
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 3", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FF5511BB")) },
	};
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: RadLegend__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadLegend RadLegend](images/radlegend-getting-started-0.png)

## Customizing the Legend Items

The most straightforward way to customize the legend items is to set the properties of the __LegendItem__ objects added in the Items collection of the control. 

To change the fill of the item's marker set the __MarkerFill__ property of the LegendItem object. 

To change the text of the items set the __Title__ property of the LegendItem object.

To change the geometry of the marker set the __MarkerGeometry__ property. Read about this in the [Marker Geometry]({%slug radlegend-marker-geometry%}) article.

The control also allows you to fully replace its items' template and define a custom visualization. To do so, set the __ItemTemplate__ property of the RadLegend control. Read more about this in the [ItemTemplate]({%slug radlegend-itemtemplate%}) article.

## Changing the Items Panel

By default the RadLegend control uses a StackPanel to render its items. To change this you can replace the panel via the __ItemsPanel__ property. Read more about this in the [ItemsPanel]({%slug radlegend-itemspanel%}) article.

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
* [Scrollbar Functionality]({%slug radlegend-scrollbar-functionality%})
* [Supported Controls]({%slug radlegend-supported-controls%})

Commit message:

Licensing: Add information about the new licensing dll in the Getting Started articles of all controls

controls/radlegend/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the RadLegend {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: radlegend-getting-started
tags: getting,started,legend
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} Legend

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains __RadLegend__.

* [Assembly references](#assembly-references)
* [Defining RadLegend and Adding Items](#defining-radlegend-and-adding-items)
* [Customizing the Legend Items](#customizing-the-legend-items)
* [Changing the Items Panel](#changing-the-items-panel)

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadLegend__, you will need to add references to the following assemblies:

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

You can find the required assemblies for each control from the suite in the {% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies%}){% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies-wpf%}){% endif %} help article.

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadLegend__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Defining RadLegend and Adding Items

The RadLegend control is populated with data via its __Items__ collection. The collection is of type __LegendItemCollection__ and can be populated only with __LegendItem__ objects. By default the Items property is *null*.

#### __[XAML] Example 1: Defining RadLegend in XAML__
{{region radlegend-getting-started-0}}
	<telerik:RadLegend>
	    <telerik:RadLegend.Items>
	        <telerik:LegendItemCollection>
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FF55AA33" Title="Legend item 1" />
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FFCC3399" Title="Legend item 2" />
	            <telerik:LegendItem MarkerFill="#FF5511BB" Title="Legend item 3" />
	        </telerik:LegendItemCollection>
	    </telerik:RadLegend.Items>
	</telerik:RadLegend>
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Example 2: Defining RadLegend in code__
{{region radlegend-getting-started-1}}
	RadLegend legend = new RadLegend();
	legend.Items = new LegendItemCollection()
	{
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 1", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FF55AA33")) },
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 2", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FFCC3399")) },
		new LegendItem() { Title = "Legend item 3", MarkerFill = new SolidColorBrush((Color)ColorConverter.ColorFromString("#FF5511BB")) },
	};
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: RadLegend__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadLegend RadLegend](images/radlegend-getting-started-0.png)

## Customizing the Legend Items

The most straightforward way to customize the legend items is to set the properties of the __LegendItem__ objects added in the Items collection of the control. 

To change the fill of the item's marker set the __MarkerFill__ property of the LegendItem object. 

To change the text of the items set the __Title__ property of the LegendItem object.

To change the geometry of the marker set the __MarkerGeometry__ property. Read about this in the [Marker Geometry]({%slug radlegend-marker-geometry%}) article.

The control also allows you to fully replace its items' template and define a custom visualization. To do so, set the __ItemTemplate__ property of the RadLegend control. Read more about this in the [ItemTemplate]({%slug radlegend-itemtemplate%}) article.

## Changing the Items Panel

By default the RadLegend control uses a StackPanel to render its items. To change this you can replace the panel via the __ItemsPanel__ property. Read more about this in the [ItemsPanel]({%slug radlegend-itemspanel%}) article.

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
* [Scrollbar Functionality]({%slug radlegend-scrollbar-functionality%})
* [Supported Controls]({%slug radlegend-supported-controls%})
