controls/radfluidcontentcontrol/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains RadFluidContentControl.
slug: fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} FluidContentControl

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains __RadFluidContentControl__.

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadFluidContentControl__, you will need to add references to the following assemblies:
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

You can find the required assemblies for each control from the suite in the {% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies%}){% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies-wpf%}){% endif %} help article.

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadFluidContentControl__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Content States

RadFluidContentControl supports three states for displaying the different contents. When the control enters a state the corresponding view will be displayed.

* __Small__
* __Normal__
* __Large__

>important Only a single content will be displayed at a time.

Read the [Setting up the Content Changing Mechanism](#setting-up-the-content-changing-mechanism) section of this article to see how to change states.

## Defining a RadFluidContentControl

The control exposes a few properties that allow you to set a different content for the different states. 

* __SmallContent__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Small__ state.

* __Content__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Normal__ state.

* __LargeContent__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Large__ state.

> Each of the content properties has a corresponding content template property - __SmallContentTemplate__, __ContentTemplate__ and __LargeContentTemplate__

#### __[XAML] Example 1: RadFluidContentControl definition in XAML__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-0}}
	<telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
			<Border Background="Bisque">
				<TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>                
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
			<Border Background="Olive">
				<TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
			<Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
				<TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
	</telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: RadFluidContentControl with size 100,100__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with size 100,100](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-0.png)

## Setting up the Content Changing Mechanism

There are two mechanisms for changing the currently visible content. The default one is based on the size of the control. When it reaches a specific size range the content will be change accordingly. The second mechanism is manual. In this case you can manually set the __State__ property of the __RadFluidContentControl__.

To enable the size based mechanism set the __ContentChangeMode__ property of RadFluidContentControl to __Automatic__. You can control the size thresholds via the following properties.
* __NormalToSmallThreshold__: The maximum size at which the control can be in Small state. When the control reaches this size it enters into Normal state. The default value of the property is *new Size(150, 150)*.

* __NormalToLargeThreshold__: The maximum size at which the control can be in Normal state. When the control reaches this size it enters into Large state. The default value of the property is *new Size(150, 150)*.

>tip The size where the Normal content is visible is the size between NormalToSmallThreshold and NormalToLargeThreshold.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting thresholds__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-1}}
	 <telerik:RadFluidContentControl NormalToSmallThreshold="100,100" 
									 NormalToLargeThreshold="300,300">
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
                <Border Background="Bisque">
                    <TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>                
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
                <Border Background="Olive">
                    <TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
                <Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
                    <TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
        </telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

> The default ContentChangeMode default value is set to Automatic.

#### __Figure 2: RadFluidContentControl with size 150,150__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with size 150,150](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-1.png)

To enable the manual mechanism set the __ContentChangeMode__ property of RadFluidContentControl to __Manual__. This allows you to manually set the __State__ property of the control, thus changing the visible content.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting the content state manually__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-2}}
	<telerik:RadFluidContentControl ContentChangeMode="Manual" State="Large">
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
			<Border Background="Bisque">
				<TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>                
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
			<Border Background="Olive">
				<TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
			<Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
				<TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
	</telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 3: RadFluidContentControl with large content manually set via the State property__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with large content manually set via the State property](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-2.png)

## Data Binding

The Content, SmallContent and LargeContent properties can be data bound to properties from a business object. In this case you can define the views for each state via the __ContentTemplate, SmallContentTemplate__ and __LargeContentTemplate__ properties. Read more about this in the [Data Binding]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-data-binding%}) article.

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
 * [Integration Examples]({%slug radfluidcontentcontrol-integration-examples%})
 * [Events]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-events%})
 * [Transitions]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-transitions%})

Commit message:

Licensing: Add information about the new licensing dll in the Getting Started articles of all controls

controls/radfluidcontentcontrol/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains RadFluidContentControl.
slug: fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 1
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} FluidContentControl

This tutorial will walk you through the creation of a sample application that contains __RadFluidContentControl__.

## Assembly References

In order to use __RadFluidContentControl__, you will need to add references to the following assemblies:

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

You can find the required assemblies for each control from the suite in the {% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies%}){% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}[Controls Dependencies]({%slug installation-installing-controls-dependencies-wpf%}){% endif %} help article.

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use __RadFluidContentControl__ when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Content States

RadFluidContentControl supports three states for displaying the different contents. When the control enters a state the corresponding view will be displayed.

* __Small__
* __Normal__
* __Large__

>important Only a single content will be displayed at a time.

Read the [Setting up the Content Changing Mechanism](#setting-up-the-content-changing-mechanism) section of this article to see how to change states.

## Defining a RadFluidContentControl

The control exposes a few properties that allow you to set a different content for the different states. 

* __SmallContent__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Small__ state.

* __Content__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Normal__ state.

* __LargeContent__: The property accepts any object and it will display it when the control is in __Large__ state.

> Each of the content properties has a corresponding content template property - __SmallContentTemplate__, __ContentTemplate__ and __LargeContentTemplate__

#### __[XAML] Example 1: RadFluidContentControl definition in XAML__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-0}}
	<telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
			<Border Background="Bisque">
				<TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>                
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
			<Border Background="Olive">
				<TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
			<Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
				<TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
	</telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 1: RadFluidContentControl with size 100,100__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with size 100,100](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-0.png)

## Setting up the Content Changing Mechanism

There are two mechanisms for changing the currently visible content. The default one is based on the size of the control. When it reaches a specific size range the content will be change accordingly. The second mechanism is manual. In this case you can manually set the __State__ property of the __RadFluidContentControl__.

To enable the size based mechanism set the __ContentChangeMode__ property of RadFluidContentControl to __Automatic__. You can control the size thresholds via the following properties.
* __NormalToSmallThreshold__: The maximum size at which the control can be in Small state. When the control reaches this size it enters into Normal state. The default value of the property is *new Size(150, 150)*.

* __NormalToLargeThreshold__: The maximum size at which the control can be in Normal state. When the control reaches this size it enters into Large state. The default value of the property is *new Size(150, 150)*.

>tip The size where the Normal content is visible is the size between NormalToSmallThreshold and NormalToLargeThreshold.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting thresholds__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-1}}
	 <telerik:RadFluidContentControl NormalToSmallThreshold="100,100" 
									 NormalToLargeThreshold="300,300">
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
                <Border Background="Bisque">
                    <TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>                
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
                <Border Background="Olive">
                    <TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
            <telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
                <Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
                    <TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
                </Border>
            </telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
        </telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

> The default ContentChangeMode default value is set to Automatic.

#### __Figure 2: RadFluidContentControl with size 150,150__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with size 150,150](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-1.png)

To enable the manual mechanism set the __ContentChangeMode__ property of RadFluidContentControl to __Manual__. This allows you to manually set the __State__ property of the control, thus changing the visible content.

#### __[XAML] Example 2: Setting the content state manually__
{{region fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-2}}
	<telerik:RadFluidContentControl ContentChangeMode="Manual" State="Large">
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
			<Border Background="Bisque">
				<TextBlock Text="small content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>                
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.SmallContent>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
			<Border Background="Olive">
				<TextBlock Text="Normal content" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.Content>
		<telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
			<Border Background="LightGoldenrodYellow">
				<TextBlock Text="LARGE CONTENT" VerticalAlignment="Center" TextAlignment="Center" />
			</Border>
		</telerik:RadFluidContentControl.LargeContent>
	</telerik:RadFluidContentControl>
{{endregion}}

#### __Figure 3: RadFluidContentControl with large content manually set via the State property__
![{{ site.framework_name }} RadFluidContentControl RadFluidContentControl with large content manually set via the State property](images/fluidcontentcontrol-getting-started-2.png)

## Data Binding

The Content, SmallContent and LargeContent properties can be data bound to properties from a business object. In this case you can define the views for each state via the __ContentTemplate, SmallContentTemplate__ and __LargeContentTemplate__ properties. Read more about this in the [Data Binding]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-data-binding%}) article.

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also
 * [Integration Examples]({%slug radfluidcontentcontrol-integration-examples%})
 * [Events]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-events%})
 * [Transitions]({%slug fluidcontentcontrol-transitions%})
