---
title: Styles
page_title: Styles
description: Styles
slug: radwordsprocessing-concepts-styles
tags: styles
published: True
position: 4
---

# Styles



__RadFlowDocument__ includes repository of [Styles](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_flow_model_styles_style.html) objects which contain sets of character, paragraph or table [style properties]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-style-properties%}). They provide rich editing capabilities with consistent look over different content inside the document. Styles allow formatting properties to be stored and managed independently from the content. [RadFlowDocument]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-radflowdocument%}) keeps its styles in __StyleRepository__ object accessible through the __RadFlowDocument.StyleRepository__ property.
      

* [Style Class Overview](#style-class-overview)

* [Style Types](#style-types)

* [Creating New Styles](#creating-new-styles)

* [Default Styles](#default-styles)

* [Built in Styles](#built-in-styles)

* [Linked Styles](#linked-styles)

* [Style Evaluation and Inheritance](#style-evaluation-and-inheritance)

## Style Class Overview

The class containing the styling structure is called __Style__. Each style contains the following properties:
        

* __Id__: The ID of the style. All styles in a __StyleRepository__ should have unique IDs. This property cannot be set after adding the style in a __StyleRepository__, in such situations *InvalidOperationException* is thrown.
            

* __StyleType__: The [type](#style-types) of the style, described with [StyleType](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_flow_model_styles_styletype.html) enumeration. It can be __Character__, __Paragraph__ or __Table__ and determines the types of document elements to which the style is applied.
            

* __Name__: The name of the style, which can be used in an application's user interface.
            

* __BasedOnStyleId__: The ID of the parent (base) style, which the current style inherits.
            

* __NextStyleId__: The ID of the style which is automatically applied by an editing application to a new paragraph added after the paragraph with the current style applied to it.
            

* __LinkedStyleId__: The ID of a style to which the current style is [linked](#linked-styles). This property can point only from paragraph style to character style and vice versa.
            

* __IsDefault__: Specifies that the style is the [default style](#default-styles) for its style type. This property is used in conjunction with the style type to determine the style which is applied to objects that do not have explicitly applied style.
            

* __IsCustom__: Specifies that the style is user-defined and it is not automatically generated by an application. This setting does not allow the formatting associated with the style to be changed automatically by an application.
            

* __IsPrimary__: Specifies that the style is important for the document. Typically applications show such styles in easily accessible part of the UI.
            

* __UIPriority__: Specifies a number used by an application to sort the styles in its UI.
            

## Style Types

A style can contain one or more of five different sets of style properties, depending on its type: __CharacterProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__, __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__. There are three types of styles:
        

* __Character styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Run]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-run%}) such as: font style, font size, font family, font-weight, etc. Styles of this type contain only __CharacterProperties__> set of style properties.
            

* __Paragraph styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Paragraph]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-paragraph%}) such as: text alignment, spacing (before and after), indentation, etc. Styles of this type contain __ParagraphProperties__ and __CharacterProperties__ sets of style properties, where character properties are used to format the __Runs__ inside the styled __Paragraph__.
            

* __Table styles__: Used to contain properties of a [Table]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-table%}) and table-related document elements ([TableRow]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-tablerow%}) and [TableCell]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-tablecell%}) ), such as borders, background, alignment, padding, etc. Styles of this type contain __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__ and __CharacterProperties__ sets of style properties, where table row and table cell properties are used to format child __TableRows__ and __TableCells__, paragraph and character properties are used to format the __Paragraphs__ and __Runs__ in the styled table.
            

* __Numbering styles__: Used to represent a [Lists]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-lists%}) in the user interface of an application. Style with this type cannot be referenced directly by document elements. It holds only information about the associated list.
            

## Creating New Styles

A style should be added to __RadFlowDocument__'s style repository in order to be further applied to elements and participate in style properties evaluation process. For example the following code creates a table style and adds it to the style repository:
        

#### __C#__

{{region radwordsprocessing-concepts-styles_0}}
    Style tableStyle = new Style("TableStyle", StyleType.Table);
    tableStyle.Name = "Table Style";
    tableStyle.TableProperties.Borders.LocalValue = new TableBorders(new Border(1, BorderStyle.Single, new ThemableColor(Colors.Blue)));
    tableStyle.TableProperties.Alignment.LocalValue = Alignment.Center;
    tableStyle.TableCellProperties.VerticalAlignment.LocalValue = VerticalAlignment.Center;
    document.StyleRepository.Add(tableStyle);
{{endregion}}



## Default Styles

Default style is style which, according to its style type , is applied to objects that do not have explicitly applied style. By default, style repository contains two default styles:
        

* __"Normal"__: Default style for __Paragraph__ and __Run__ document elements. "Normal" style additionally inherits from the default style properties of the document stored in __RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyle__ property.
            

* __"TableNormal"__: Default style for __Table__, __TableRow__ and __TableCell__ document elements.
            

>If you want to set default values for properties of all __Run__ and __Paragraph__ document elements, it is convenient to use __CharacterPoperties__ and __ParagraphProperties__ stored in __RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyle__ property. Setting default values for properties for all __Table__, __TableRow__ and __TableCell__ document elements should be done in the default table style - "TableNormal".
          

## Built-in Styles

Built-in styles are commonly used styles which are predefined for convenience. They have to be explicitly added to the style repository before usage using the __StyleRepository.AddBuiltInStyle()__ method.
        

[BuiltInStyleNames](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_flow_model_styles_builtInstylenames.html) static class contains properties and methods for getting the IDs of all built-in styles. For example, the following code gets the ID of the "Heading 1" built-in style:
        

#### __C#__

{{region radwordsprocessing-concepts-styles_1}}
    string heading1StyleId = BuiltInStyleNames.GetHeadingStyleIdByIndex(1);
    Style heading1Style = document.StyleRepository.AddBuiltInStyle(heading1StyleId);
{{endregion}}



__BuiltInStyles__ static class can be used for work with the raw built-in styles.
        

## Linked Styles

Linked style is a grouping of paragraph style and character style into a pair with link between them. This allows applications to apply common set of style properties to __Paragraphs__ and __Runs__:
        

* __Linked style is applied to Paragraph__: The paragraph style part of the linked pair is applied to the Paragraph.
            

* __Linked style is applied to Run__: The character style part of the linked pair is applied to the Run.
            

Styles are linked by setting __Style.LinkedStyleId__ property to the ID of the other style in the pair.
        

## Style Evaluation and Inheritance

When evaluating the actual value of a style property in one of the style properties sets (__CharacterProperties__, __ParagraphProperties__, __TableProperties__, __TableRowProperties__, __TableCellProperties__), the style system uses the following rules:
        

1. If the style property has local value set, it is returned.
            

1. If the corresponding style property of the base style has local value set, this value is returned.
            

1. If the corresponding style property in the default style has local value*, this value is returned.
            

1. If this is character or paragraph style property, and if the corresponding property from document's default Paragraph and Character settings stored in RadFlowDocument.DefaultStyles property has local value, this value is used.
            

> __*__ If a style is of character or paragraph style type it takes into consideration the default style only if it is based on it.
          

>tipSome of the style properties always have local value set.
          

Corresponding style property of the base style is determined depending on the style type using the following rules:
        

### Character style

Character style can only be based on other character styles. The inheritance is as follows:
            

* Character properties inherit the character properties from the base style.
                

### Paragraph style

Paragraph style can be based on other paragraph or linked styles.
            

* When a paragraph style is based on another paragraph style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

* When a paragraph style is based on a linked style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the paragraph style part in the base linked style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the character style part in the base linked style.
                    

### Table style

Table styles can only be based on other table styles. The inheritance is as follows:
            

* Character properties inherit the character properties from the base style.
                

* Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base table style.
                

* Table properties inherit the table properties from the base table style.
                

* Table row properties inherit the table row properties from the base table style.
                

* Table cell properties inherit the table cell properties from the base table style.
                

### Linked style

Linked styles can be based on other linked styles or on paragraph styles.
            

* When a linked style is based on a paragraph style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base paragraph style.
                    

* When a linked style is based on another linked style the inheritance of the properties is as follows:
                

    * Paragraph properties inherit the paragraph properties from the base linked paragraph style.
                    

    * Character properties inherit the character properties from the base linked character style.
                    

# See Also

 * [Styles API Reference](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_flow_model_styles_style.html)

 * [RadFlowDocument]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-radflowdocument%})

 * [Run]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-run%})

 * [Paragraph]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-paragraph%})

 * [Table]({%slug radwordsprocessing-model-table%})[BuiltInStyleNames](http://www.telerik.com/help/wpf/t_telerik_windows_documents_flow_model_styles_builtInstylenames.html)

 * [Lists]({%slug radwordsprocessing-concepts-lists%})
