controls/dragdropmanager/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the DragDropManager {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: dragdropmanager-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 2
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} DragDropManager

This article will demonstrate a basic implementation of the DragDropManager by dragging between two ListBoxes. 

>To learn how to use the DragDropManager in a more MVVM-friendly matter though commands, have a look at the "DragDrop Using Commands" demo from our [SDK Samples Browser](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/). The source code of the demo is also available in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/DragDrop/DragDropUsingCommands).

## Adding Assembly References

In order to use the `DragDropManager` API you need to add reference to __Telerik.Windows.Controls__ assembly.

The required Telerik assemblies can be added using one of the available [installation approaches]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%}). 

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use `DragDropManager` when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Using the DragDropManager Events

For the purpose of this tutorial we will create a business object ApplicationInfo, which will expose a couple of properties as well as a sample collection for populating the ListBoxes. The structure of the class used in this example is shown on the next code snippets:

#### __[C#] Create ApplicationInfo__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_0}}
	public class ApplicationInfo
	{
		public Double Price
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String IconPath
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String Name
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String Author
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public static ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo> GenerateApplicationInfos()
		{
			ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo> result = new ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo>();
			ApplicationInfo info1 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info1.Name = "Large Collider";
			info1.Author = "C.E.R.N.";
			info1.IconPath = @"img/Atom.png";
			result.Add(info1);
			ApplicationInfo info2 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info2.Name = "Paintbrush";
			info2.Author = "Imagine Inc.";
			info2.IconPath = @"img/Brush.png";
			result.Add(info2);
			ApplicationInfo info3 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info3.Name = "Lively Calendar";
			info3.Author = "Control AG";
			info3.IconPath = @"img/CalendarEvents.png";
			result.Add(info3);
			ApplicationInfo info4 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info4.Name = "Fire Burning ROM";
			info4.Author = "The CD Factory";
			info4.IconPath = @"img/CDBurn.png";
			result.Add(info4);
			ApplicationInfo info5 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info5.Name = "Fav Explorer";
			info5.Author = "Star Factory";
			info5.IconPath = @"img/favorites.png";
			result.Add(info5);
			ApplicationInfo info6 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info6.Name = "IE Fox";
			info6.Author = "Open Org";
			info6.IconPath = @"img/Connected.png";
			result.Add(info6);
			ApplicationInfo info7 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info7.Name = "Charting";
			info7.Author = "AA-AZ inc";
			info7.IconPath = @"img/ChartDot.png";
			result.Add(info7);
			ApplicationInfo info8 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info8.Name = "SuperPlay";
			info8.Author = "EB Games";
			info8.IconPath = @"img/Games.png";
			result.Add(info8);
			return result;
		}
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Create ApplicationInfo__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_1}}
	Public Class ApplicationInfo
	 Public Property Price() As [Double]
	  Get
	   Return m_Price
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Price = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Price As [Double]
	 Public Property IconPath() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_IconPath
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_IconPath = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_IconPath As [String]
	 Public Property Name() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_Name
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Name = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Name As [String]
	 Public Property Author() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_Author
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Author = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Author As [String]
	 Public Shared Function GenerateApplicationInfos() As ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)
	  Dim result As New ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)()
	  Dim info1 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info1.Name = "Large Collider"
	  info1.Author = "C.E.R.N."
	  info1.IconPath = "img/Atom.png"
	  result.Add(info1)
	  Dim info2 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info2.Name = "Paintbrush"
	  info2.Author = "Imagine Inc."
	  info2.IconPath = "img/Brush.png"
	  result.Add(info2)
	  Dim info3 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info3.Name = "Lively Calendar"
	  info3.Author = "Control AG"
	  info3.IconPath = "img/CalendarEvents.png"
	  result.Add(info3)
	  Dim info4 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info4.Name = "Fire Burning ROM"
	  info4.Author = "The CD Factory"
	  info4.IconPath = "img/CDBurn.png"
	  result.Add(info4)
	  Dim info5 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info5.Name = "Fav Explorer"
	  info5.Author = "Star Factory"
	  info5.IconPath = "img/favorites.png"
	  result.Add(info5)
	  Dim info6 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info6.Name = "IE Fox"
	  info6.Author = "Open Org"
	  info6.IconPath = "img/Connected.png"
	  result.Add(info6)
	  Dim info7 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info7.Name = "Charting"
	  info7.Author = "AA-AZ inc"
	  info7.IconPath = "img/ChartDot.png"
	  result.Add(info7)
	  Dim info8 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info8.Name = "SuperPlay"
	  info8.Author = "EB Games"
	  info8.IconPath = "img/Games.png"
	  result.Add(info8)
	  Return result
	 End Function
	End Class
{{endregion}}

Then we need to define our ListBoxes with suitable ItemTemplates. We also enable dragging the ListBoxItems (through style) and allow drop to each of the ListBoxes (through setting AllowDrop property):

{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}

#### __[XAML] Define ListBoxes, style and DataTemplate__
{{region xaml-dragdropmanager-getting-started_2}}
	<Grid x:Name="LayoutRoot" Background="White">
	      <Grid.Resources>
	          <Style TargetType="ListBoxItem">
	              <Setter Property="telerik:DragDropManager.AllowDrag" Value="True"></Setter>
	          </Style>
	          <DataTemplate x:Key="ApplicationTemplate">
	              <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">
	                  <Image Source="{Binding IconPath}"/>
	                  <TextBlock Margin="5" Text="{Binding Name}" VerticalAlignment="Center"></TextBlock>
	              </StackPanel>
	          </DataTemplate>
	       </Grid.Resources>
	       <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	       </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	       <ListBox x:Name="ApplicationList" ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	       <ListBox x:Name="MyAppList" Background="Gray" Grid.Column="1"  
	                ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	</Grid>
{{endregion}}

{% else %}

#### __[XAML] Define ListBoxes, style and DataTemplate__
{{region xaml-dragdropmanager-getting-started_3}}
	<Grid x:Name="LayoutRoot" Background="White">
	      <Grid.Resources>
	          <Style TargetType="ListBoxItem">
	              <Setter Property="telerik:DragDropManager.AllowCapturedDrag" Value="True"></Setter>
	          </Style>
	          <DataTemplate x:Key="ApplicationTemplate">
	              <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">
	                  <Image Source="{Binding IconPath}"/>
	                  <TextBlock Margin="5" Text="{Binding Name}" VerticalAlignment="Center"></TextBlock>
	              </StackPanel>
	          </DataTemplate>
	       </Grid.Resources>
	       <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	       </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	       <ListBox x:Name="ApplicationList" ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	       <ListBox x:Name="MyAppList" Background="Gray" Grid.Column="1"  
	                ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	</Grid>
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}

>To use the DragDropManager and its components in XAML you have to declare the following namespace:
>	*xmlns:telerik="http://schemas.telerik.com/2008/xaml/presentation"*

Afterwards we need to set the ItemsSource of the controls:

#### __[C#] Set ItemsSource__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_4}}
	ApplicationList.ItemsSource = ApplicationInfo.GenerateApplicationInfos();
	MyAppList.ItemsSource = new ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo>();
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Set ItemsSource__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_5}}
	ApplicationList.ItemsSource = ApplicationInfo.GenerateApplicationInfos()
	MyAppList.ItemsSource = New ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)()
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Attach Drag-Drop event handlers__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_6}}
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(ApplicationList, OnDragInitialize);
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(MyAppList, OnDragInitialize);
	
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(ApplicationList, OnGiveFeedback);
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(MyAppList, OnGiveFeedback);
	
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(ApplicationList, OnDragCompleted);
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(MyAppList, OnDragCompleted);
	
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(ApplicationList, OnDrop);
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(MyAppList, OnDrop);	
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Attach Drag-Drop event handlers__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_7}}
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(ApplicationList, New DragInitializeEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragInitialize))
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(MyAppList, New DragInitializeEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragInitialize))
	
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(ApplicationList, New GiveFeedbackEventHandler(AddressOf OnGiveFeedback))
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(MyAppList, New GiveFeedbackEventHandler(AddressOf OnGiveFeedback))
	
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(ApplicationList, New DragDropCompletedEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragDropCompleted))
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(MyAppList, New DragDropCompletedEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragDropCompleted))
	
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(ApplicationList, New DragEventHandler(AddressOf OnDrop))
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(MyAppList, New DragEventHandler(AddressOf OnDrop))	
{{endregion}}

> For more information about the available events, check out the [Events]({%slug dragdropmanager-events%}) article.

Then on DragInitialize we define the data that will be dragged as well as the visual representation. We also set DragDropEffects to all to allow drop on all scenarios.

#### __[C#] Implement OnDragInitialize__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_8}}
	private void OnDragInitialize(object sender, DragInitializeEventArgs args)
	{
	    args.AllowedEffects = DragDropEffects.All;
	    var payload = DragDropPayloadManager.GeneratePayload(null);
	    var data = ((FrameworkElement)args.OriginalSource).DataContext;
	    payload.SetData("DragData", data);
	    args.Data = payload;
	    args.DragVisual = new ContentControl { Content = data, ContentTemplate = LayoutRoot.Resources["ApplicationTemplate"] as DataTemplate };
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDragInitialize__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_9}}
	Private Sub OnDragInitialize(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As DragInitializeEventArgs)
		args.AllowedEffects = DragDropEffects.All
		Dim payload = DragDropPayloadManager.GeneratePayload(Nothing)
		Dim data = CType(args.OriginalSource, FrameworkElement).DataContext
		payload.SetData("DragData", data)
		args.Data = payload
		args.DragVisual = New ContentControl With {.Content = data, .ContentTemplate = TryCast(LayoutRoot.Resources("ApplicationTemplate"), DataTemplate)}
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

>important In order for the `DragInitialize` method to occur, the `DragDropManager.AllowCapturedDrag` attached property has to be set on the source element. In this example, this is set via the Style that targets the `ListBoxItem` element.

We also set mouse cursor to be arrow:

#### __[C#] Implement OnGiveFeedback__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_10}}
	private void OnGiveFeedback(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.GiveFeedbackEventArgs args)
	{
	    args.SetCursor(Cursors.Arrow);
	    args.Handled = true;
	}
{{endregion}}


#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnGiveFeedback__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_11}}
	Private Sub OnGiveFeedback(sender As Object, args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.GiveFeedbackEventArgs)
	 args.SetCursor(Cursors.Arrow)
	 args.Handled = True
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

Finally, we add logic, that will be executed when drag and drop operations finish:

{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}

#### __[C#] Implement OnDrop__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_12}}
	private void OnDrop(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Add(data);
	}
	
	public void OnDragCompleted(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Remove(data);
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDrop__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_13}}
	Private Sub OnDrop(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs)
		Dim data = CType(args.Data, DataObject).GetData("DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Add(data)
	End Sub
	
	Public Sub OnDragDropCompleted(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs)
		Dim data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Remove(data)
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}
{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}

#### __[C#] Implement OnDrop__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_14}}
	private void OnDrop(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = ((DataObject)args.Data).GetData("DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Add(data);
	}
	
	public void OnDragCompleted(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Remove(data);
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDrop__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_15}}
	Private Sub OnDrop(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs)
		Dim data = CType(args.Data, DataObject).GetData("DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Add(data)
	End Sub
	
	Public Sub OnDragCompleted(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs)
		Dim data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Remove(data)
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}

__Drag between ListBoxes__

![Drag between ListBoxes](images/DragDropManager_DragBetweenListBoxes.png)

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}> By default the DragDropManager shows the drag visual in a separate window. You have the option to set the `UseAdornerLayer` property of the DragDropManager. After this property is set to __True__, the drag visual will be shown in the AdornerLayer of the MainWindow.{% endif %} 

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF DragAndDrop Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/drag-drop.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also

 * [Events]({%slug dragdropmanager-events%})
 * [DragDropManager Migration]({%slug dragdropmanager-migration%})

Commit message:

Licensing: Add information about the new licensing dll in the Getting Started articles of all controls

controls/dragdropmanager/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
page_title: Getting Started
description: Check our &quot;Getting Started&quot; documentation article for the DragDropManager {{ site.framework_name }} control.
slug: dragdropmanager-getting-started
tags: getting,started
published: True
position: 2
---

# Getting Started with {{ site.framework_name }} DragDropManager

This article will demonstrate a basic implementation of the DragDropManager by dragging between two ListBoxes. 

>To learn how to use the DragDropManager in a more MVVM-friendly matter though commands, have a look at the "DragDrop Using Commands" demo from our [SDK Samples Browser](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/). The source code of the demo is also available in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/DragDrop/DragDropUsingCommands).

## Adding Assembly References

In order to use the `DragDropManager` API you need to add a reference to the following assemblies:

* __Telerik.Licensing.Runtime__
* __Telerik.Windows.Controls__

The required Telerik assemblies can be added using one of the available [installation approaches]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%}). 

>tip With the 2025 Q1 release, the Telerik UI for WPF has a new licensing mechanism. You can learn more about it [here]({%slug installing-license-key%}).

### Adding Telerik Assemblies Using NuGet

To use `DragDropManager` when working with NuGet packages, install the `Telerik.Windows.Controls.for.Wpf.Xaml` package. The [package name may vary]({%slug nuget-available-packages%}) slightly based on the Telerik dlls set - [Xaml or NoXaml]({%slug xaml-vs-noxaml%})

Read more about NuGet installation in the [Installing UI for WPF from NuGet Package]({%slug nuget-installation%}) article.

## Using the DragDropManager Events

For the purpose of this tutorial we will create a business object ApplicationInfo, which will expose a couple of properties as well as a sample collection for populating the ListBoxes. The structure of the class used in this example is shown on the next code snippets:

#### __[C#] Create ApplicationInfo__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_0}}
	public class ApplicationInfo
	{
		public Double Price
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String IconPath
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String Name
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public String Author
		{
			get;
			set;
		}
		public static ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo> GenerateApplicationInfos()
		{
			ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo> result = new ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo>();
			ApplicationInfo info1 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info1.Name = "Large Collider";
			info1.Author = "C.E.R.N.";
			info1.IconPath = @"img/Atom.png";
			result.Add(info1);
			ApplicationInfo info2 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info2.Name = "Paintbrush";
			info2.Author = "Imagine Inc.";
			info2.IconPath = @"img/Brush.png";
			result.Add(info2);
			ApplicationInfo info3 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info3.Name = "Lively Calendar";
			info3.Author = "Control AG";
			info3.IconPath = @"img/CalendarEvents.png";
			result.Add(info3);
			ApplicationInfo info4 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info4.Name = "Fire Burning ROM";
			info4.Author = "The CD Factory";
			info4.IconPath = @"img/CDBurn.png";
			result.Add(info4);
			ApplicationInfo info5 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info5.Name = "Fav Explorer";
			info5.Author = "Star Factory";
			info5.IconPath = @"img/favorites.png";
			result.Add(info5);
			ApplicationInfo info6 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info6.Name = "IE Fox";
			info6.Author = "Open Org";
			info6.IconPath = @"img/Connected.png";
			result.Add(info6);
			ApplicationInfo info7 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info7.Name = "Charting";
			info7.Author = "AA-AZ inc";
			info7.IconPath = @"img/ChartDot.png";
			result.Add(info7);
			ApplicationInfo info8 = new ApplicationInfo();
			info8.Name = "SuperPlay";
			info8.Author = "EB Games";
			info8.IconPath = @"img/Games.png";
			result.Add(info8);
			return result;
		}
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Create ApplicationInfo__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_1}}
	Public Class ApplicationInfo
	 Public Property Price() As [Double]
	  Get
	   Return m_Price
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Price = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Price As [Double]
	 Public Property IconPath() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_IconPath
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_IconPath = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_IconPath As [String]
	 Public Property Name() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_Name
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Name = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Name As [String]
	 Public Property Author() As [String]
	  Get
	   Return m_Author
	  End Get
	  Set
	   m_Author = Value
	  End Set
	 End Property
	 Private m_Author As [String]
	 Public Shared Function GenerateApplicationInfos() As ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)
	  Dim result As New ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)()
	  Dim info1 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info1.Name = "Large Collider"
	  info1.Author = "C.E.R.N."
	  info1.IconPath = "img/Atom.png"
	  result.Add(info1)
	  Dim info2 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info2.Name = "Paintbrush"
	  info2.Author = "Imagine Inc."
	  info2.IconPath = "img/Brush.png"
	  result.Add(info2)
	  Dim info3 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info3.Name = "Lively Calendar"
	  info3.Author = "Control AG"
	  info3.IconPath = "img/CalendarEvents.png"
	  result.Add(info3)
	  Dim info4 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info4.Name = "Fire Burning ROM"
	  info4.Author = "The CD Factory"
	  info4.IconPath = "img/CDBurn.png"
	  result.Add(info4)
	  Dim info5 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info5.Name = "Fav Explorer"
	  info5.Author = "Star Factory"
	  info5.IconPath = "img/favorites.png"
	  result.Add(info5)
	  Dim info6 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info6.Name = "IE Fox"
	  info6.Author = "Open Org"
	  info6.IconPath = "img/Connected.png"
	  result.Add(info6)
	  Dim info7 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info7.Name = "Charting"
	  info7.Author = "AA-AZ inc"
	  info7.IconPath = "img/ChartDot.png"
	  result.Add(info7)
	  Dim info8 As New ApplicationInfo()
	  info8.Name = "SuperPlay"
	  info8.Author = "EB Games"
	  info8.IconPath = "img/Games.png"
	  result.Add(info8)
	  Return result
	 End Function
	End Class
{{endregion}}

Then we need to define our ListBoxes with suitable ItemTemplates. We also enable dragging the ListBoxItems (through style) and allow drop to each of the ListBoxes (through setting AllowDrop property):

{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}

#### __[XAML] Define ListBoxes, style and DataTemplate__
{{region xaml-dragdropmanager-getting-started_2}}
	<Grid x:Name="LayoutRoot" Background="White">
	      <Grid.Resources>
	          <Style TargetType="ListBoxItem">
	              <Setter Property="telerik:DragDropManager.AllowDrag" Value="True"></Setter>
	          </Style>
	          <DataTemplate x:Key="ApplicationTemplate">
	              <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">
	                  <Image Source="{Binding IconPath}"/>
	                  <TextBlock Margin="5" Text="{Binding Name}" VerticalAlignment="Center"></TextBlock>
	              </StackPanel>
	          </DataTemplate>
	       </Grid.Resources>
	       <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	       </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	       <ListBox x:Name="ApplicationList" ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	       <ListBox x:Name="MyAppList" Background="Gray" Grid.Column="1"  
	                ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	</Grid>
{{endregion}}

{% else %}

#### __[XAML] Define ListBoxes, style and DataTemplate__
{{region xaml-dragdropmanager-getting-started_3}}
	<Grid x:Name="LayoutRoot" Background="White">
	      <Grid.Resources>
	          <Style TargetType="ListBoxItem">
	              <Setter Property="telerik:DragDropManager.AllowCapturedDrag" Value="True"></Setter>
	          </Style>
	          <DataTemplate x:Key="ApplicationTemplate">
	              <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal">
	                  <Image Source="{Binding IconPath}"/>
	                  <TextBlock Margin="5" Text="{Binding Name}" VerticalAlignment="Center"></TextBlock>
	              </StackPanel>
	          </DataTemplate>
	       </Grid.Resources>
	       <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	           <ColumnDefinition></ColumnDefinition>
	       </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
	       <ListBox x:Name="ApplicationList" ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	       <ListBox x:Name="MyAppList" Background="Gray" Grid.Column="1"  
	                ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ApplicationTemplate}" AllowDrop="True"/>
	</Grid>
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}

>To use the DragDropManager and its components in XAML you have to declare the following namespace:
>	*xmlns:telerik="http://schemas.telerik.com/2008/xaml/presentation"*

Afterwards we need to set the ItemsSource of the controls:

#### __[C#] Set ItemsSource__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_4}}
	ApplicationList.ItemsSource = ApplicationInfo.GenerateApplicationInfos();
	MyAppList.ItemsSource = new ObservableCollection<ApplicationInfo>();
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Set ItemsSource__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_5}}
	ApplicationList.ItemsSource = ApplicationInfo.GenerateApplicationInfos()
	MyAppList.ItemsSource = New ObservableCollection(Of ApplicationInfo)()
{{endregion}}

#### __[C#] Attach Drag-Drop event handlers__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_6}}
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(ApplicationList, OnDragInitialize);
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(MyAppList, OnDragInitialize);
	
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(ApplicationList, OnGiveFeedback);
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(MyAppList, OnGiveFeedback);
	
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(ApplicationList, OnDragCompleted);
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(MyAppList, OnDragCompleted);
	
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(ApplicationList, OnDrop);
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(MyAppList, OnDrop);	
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Attach Drag-Drop event handlers__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_7}}
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(ApplicationList, New DragInitializeEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragInitialize))
	DragDropManager.AddDragInitializeHandler(MyAppList, New DragInitializeEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragInitialize))
	
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(ApplicationList, New GiveFeedbackEventHandler(AddressOf OnGiveFeedback))
	DragDropManager.AddGiveFeedbackHandler(MyAppList, New GiveFeedbackEventHandler(AddressOf OnGiveFeedback))
	
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(ApplicationList, New DragDropCompletedEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragDropCompleted))
	DragDropManager.AddDragDropCompletedHandler(MyAppList, New DragDropCompletedEventHandler(AddressOf OnDragDropCompleted))
	
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(ApplicationList, New DragEventHandler(AddressOf OnDrop))
	DragDropManager.AddDropHandler(MyAppList, New DragEventHandler(AddressOf OnDrop))	
{{endregion}}

> For more information about the available events, check out the [Events]({%slug dragdropmanager-events%}) article.

Then on DragInitialize we define the data that will be dragged as well as the visual representation. We also set DragDropEffects to all to allow drop on all scenarios.

#### __[C#] Implement OnDragInitialize__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_8}}
	private void OnDragInitialize(object sender, DragInitializeEventArgs args)
	{
	    args.AllowedEffects = DragDropEffects.All;
	    var payload = DragDropPayloadManager.GeneratePayload(null);
	    var data = ((FrameworkElement)args.OriginalSource).DataContext;
	    payload.SetData("DragData", data);
	    args.Data = payload;
	    args.DragVisual = new ContentControl { Content = data, ContentTemplate = LayoutRoot.Resources["ApplicationTemplate"] as DataTemplate };
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDragInitialize__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_9}}
	Private Sub OnDragInitialize(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As DragInitializeEventArgs)
		args.AllowedEffects = DragDropEffects.All
		Dim payload = DragDropPayloadManager.GeneratePayload(Nothing)
		Dim data = CType(args.OriginalSource, FrameworkElement).DataContext
		payload.SetData("DragData", data)
		args.Data = payload
		args.DragVisual = New ContentControl With {.Content = data, .ContentTemplate = TryCast(LayoutRoot.Resources("ApplicationTemplate"), DataTemplate)}
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

>important In order for the `DragInitialize` method to occur, the `DragDropManager.AllowCapturedDrag` attached property has to be set on the source element. In this example, this is set via the Style that targets the `ListBoxItem` element.

We also set mouse cursor to be arrow:

#### __[C#] Implement OnGiveFeedback__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_10}}
	private void OnGiveFeedback(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.GiveFeedbackEventArgs args)
	{
	    args.SetCursor(Cursors.Arrow);
	    args.Handled = true;
	}
{{endregion}}


#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnGiveFeedback__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_11}}
	Private Sub OnGiveFeedback(sender As Object, args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.GiveFeedbackEventArgs)
	 args.SetCursor(Cursors.Arrow)
	 args.Handled = True
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

Finally, we add logic, that will be executed when drag and drop operations finish:

{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}

#### __[C#] Implement OnDrop__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_12}}
	private void OnDrop(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Add(data);
	}
	
	public void OnDragCompleted(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Remove(data);
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDrop__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_13}}
	Private Sub OnDrop(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs)
		Dim data = CType(args.Data, DataObject).GetData("DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Add(data)
	End Sub
	
	Public Sub OnDragDropCompleted(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs)
		Dim data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Remove(data)
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}
{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}

#### __[C#] Implement OnDrop__
{{region cs-dragdropmanager-getting-started_14}}
	private void OnDrop(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = ((DataObject)args.Data).GetData("DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Add(data);
	}
	
	public void OnDragCompleted(object sender, Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs args)
	{
	    var data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData");
	    ((IList)(sender as ListBox).ItemsSource).Remove(data);
	}
{{endregion}}

#### __[VB.NET] Implement OnDrop__
{{region vb-dragdropmanager-getting-started_15}}
	Private Sub OnDrop(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragEventArgs)
		Dim data = CType(args.Data, DataObject).GetData("DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Add(data)
	End Sub
	
	Public Sub OnDragCompleted(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal args As Telerik.Windows.DragDrop.DragDropCompletedEventArgs)
		Dim data = DragDropPayloadManager.GetDataFromObject(args.Data, "DragData")
		CType((TryCast(sender, ListBox)).ItemsSource, IList).Remove(data)
	End Sub
{{endregion}}

{% endif %}

__Drag between ListBoxes__

![Drag between ListBoxes](images/DragDropManager_DragBetweenListBoxes.png)

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}> By default the DragDropManager shows the drag visual in a separate window. You have the option to set the `UseAdornerLayer` property of the DragDropManager. After this property is set to __True__, the drag visual will be shown in the AdornerLayer of the MainWindow.{% endif %} 

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}
## Telerik UI for WPF Learning Resources

* [Telerik UI for WPF DragAndDrop Component](https://www.telerik.com/products/wpf/drag-drop.aspx)
* [Getting Started with Telerik UI for WPF Components]({%slug getting-started-first-steps%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Installation]({%slug installation-installing-which-file-do-i-need%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF and WinForms Integration]({%slug winforms-integration%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Visual Studio Templates]({%slug visual-studio-templates%})
* [Setting a Theme with Telerik UI for WPF]({%slug styling-apperance-implicit-styles-overview%})
* [Telerik UI for WPF Virtual Classroom (Training Courses for Registered Users)](https://learn.telerik.com/learn/course/external/view/elearning/16/telerik-ui-for-wpf) 
* [Telerik UI for WPF License Agreement](https://www.telerik.com/purchase/license-agreement/wpf-dlw-s)
{% endif %}

## See Also

 * [Events]({%slug dragdropmanager-events%})
 * [DragDropManager Migration]({%slug dragdropmanager-migration%})
