---
title: Chart Types
page_title: Chart Types
description: Chart Types
slug: radchartview-chart-types
tags: chart,types
published: True
position: 1
---

# Chart Types

__RadChartView__ consists of three charting components that derive form the same base class - __RadChartBase__. This articles covers the charts' API properties and events.

## RadChartBase

This section presents the available properties in the __RadChartBase__ control.       

__Common Properties__:        

* __Behaviors__: A property of type __ChartBehaviorCollection__ which gets the collection of the active behaviors. You can add instances of the available behaviors into that collection to activate them.            

* __LegendItems__: A property of type __LegendItemCollection__ which gets the legend items generated by the charting control. This collection can be used in combination with the RadLegend control.

* __SeriesProvider__: A property of type __ChartSeriesProvider__ which gets or sets the object that can dynamically create series. This property is handy when the number of the series is not known in advance or if that number is changing dynamically.            

* __EmptyContent__: A property of type __Object__ which gets or sets the content visualized when no series are defined.            

* __EmptyContentTemplate__: A property of type __DataTemplate__ which specifies the template applied to the content visualized when no series are defined.            

* __SelectedPoints__: A property of type __ReadOnlyDataPointCollection__ which gets or sets the selected data points. 

__Zoom and Pan properties__:        

* __MaxZoom__: A property of type __Size__ which gets or sets the maximum allowed zoom value.            

* __MinZoom__: A property of type __Size__ which gets or sets the minimum allowed zoom value.            

* __PanOffset__: A property of type __Point__ which gets or sets the horizontal and vertical offset of the viewport when the chart is zoomed.

* __Zoom__: A property of type __Size__ which gets or sets the current scale factor of the charting component.            

__Styling properties__

* __DragZoomBorderStyle__: A property of type __Style__ which gets or sets the visual appearance of the DragZoomBorder element. This component is visualized when the user zoom-in the plot area with drag-zooming. The property expects a __Style__ with its TargetType set to System.Windows.Controls.__Border__.

* __Palette__: A property of type __ChartPalette__ (enum) which gets or sets the palette that colors the chart's series. 

* __PlotAreaStyle__: A property of type __Style__ which gets or sets the visual appearance of the plot area. The property expects a __Style__  with its TargetType set to System.Windows.Controls.__Border__.
            
* __SelectionPalette__: A property of type __ChartPalette__ (enum) which gets or sets the color scheme used by the charting component to paint the selected data points.            

* __TrackBallInfoStyle__ - A property of type __Style__ which gets or sets the visual appearance of the __TrackBall__ control. The property expects a __Style__ with its TargetType set to Telerik.Windows.Controls.ChartView.__TrackBallInfoControl__.            

__Events__

* __UIUpdated__: An event which occurs when the chart's UI gets updated. The event arguments are of type __EventArgs__.

* __PlotAreaClipChanged__: An event which occurs when the chart's plot area gets changed. The event arguments are of type __EventArgs__.

## RadCartesianChart

This section presents the available properties in the __RadCartesianChart__ control       

__Specific Properties:__

* __Grid__: A property of type __CartesianChartGrid__ which gets or sets grid used to decorate the plot area with polar and angle lines. 

* __HorizontalAxis__: A property of type __CartesianAxis__ which gets or sets the horizontal axis of the charting component.

* __VerticalAxis__: A property of type __CartesianAxis__ which gets or sets the vertical axis of the charting component.

* __Series__: A property of type __PresenterCollection<CartesianSeries>__ which gets the series of the charting component. You can add and remove series from the collection. 

* __SmartLabelsStrategy__: A property of type __ChartSmartLabelsStrategyBase__ which gets or sets the labels arranging strategy of the series. It is useful in cases where labels are overlapping.

* __Annotations__: A property of type __PresenterCollection<CartesianChartAnnotation>__ which gets the annotations of the charting component. This collection can be used to visualize custom objects in the plot area.

* __HoverMode__: A property of type __ChartHoverMode__ (enum) which controls weather the series will fade out on mouse over.              

__Zoom and Pan properties__:

* __HorizontalZoomRangeStart__: A property of type __Double__ which gets or sets where the horizontal zoom range will start. The valid values are from 0 to 1. 

* __HorizontalZoomRangeEnd__: A property of type __Double__ which gets or sets where the horizontal zoom range will end. The valid values are from 0 to 1.

* __VerticalZoomRangeStart__: A property of type __Double__ which gets or sets where the vertical zoom range will start. The valid values are from 0 to 1.

* __VerticalZoomRangeEnd__: A property of type __Double__ which gets or sets where the vertical zoom range will end. The valid values are from 0 to 1.

__Events__

* __PanOffsetChanged__: An event which occurs when the chart's pan offset gets changed. The event will be fired only if [ChartPanAndZoomBehavior]({%slug radchartview-features-panzoom%}) is added in the Behaviors collection of the chart.
	
	The event arguments are passed with the __ChartPanOffsetChangedEventArgs__ class which provides the following properties:
	* __NewPanOffset__: A property of type __Point__ which gets the new pan offset.
	* __PreviousPanOffset__: A property of type __Point__ which gets the previously applied pan offset.

* __ZoomChanged__: An event which occurs when the chart's zoom gets changed. The event will be fired only if [ChartPanAndZoomBehavior]({%slug radchartview-features-panzoom%}) is added in the Behaviors collection of the chart.
	
	The event arguments are passed with the __ChartZoomChangedEventArgs__ class which provides the following properties:
	* __NewZoom__: A property of type __Size__ which gets the new zoom level.
	* __PreviousZoom__: A property of type __Size__ which gets the previously applied zoom level.

## RadPolarChart

This section presents the properties exposed by the RadPolarChart control

__Specific Properties__

* __Grid__: A property of type __PolarChartGrid__ which gets or sets grid used to decorate the plot area with polar and angle lines.            

* __PolarAxis__: A property of type __PolarAxis__ which gets or sets the linear axis of the charting component.            

* __RadialAxis__: A property of type __RadialAxis__ which gets or sets the circular axis of the charting component.            

* __Series__: A property of type __PresenterCollection<PolarSeries>__ which gets the collection containing all the series presented by the control.            

* __StartAngle__: A property of type __Double__ which gets or sets the angle at which the polar axis is anchored. 

* __HoverMode__: A property of type __ChartHoverMode__ (enum) which controls weather the series will fade out on mouse over.

## RadPieChart

This section presents the properties exposed by the RadPieChart control

__Specific Properties__

* __Series__: A property of type __PresenterCollection<PieSeries>__ which gets the collection containing all the series presented by the control.

* __HoverMode__: A property of type __PieChartHoverMode__ (enum) which controls weather the slices will fade out on mouse over. If it is set to “FadeOtherSeries”, when you mouse over a pie slice, all other slices will be fade out. The default value of this property is “None”.

## RadFunnelChart

This section presents the properties exposed by the RadFunnelChart control

__Specific Properties__

* __Series__: A property of type __PresenterCollection<FunnelSeries>__ which gets the collection containing all the series presented by the control.

* __HoverMode__: A property of type __FunnelChartHoverMode__ that gets or sets the hover functionality. If it is set to “FadeOtherSeries”, when you mouse over a funnel datapoint, all other datapoints will be fade out. The default value of this property is “None”.

## See Also
* [Smart Labels]({%slug radchartview-features-smart-labels%})
* [Axis]({%slug radchartview-axes-axis%})
* [RadLegend Support]({%slug radchartview-features-radlegend-support%})
* [Selection]({%slug radchartview-features-selection%})
* [Palette Overview]({%slug radchartview-features-palettes-introduction%})
* [Scroll and Zoom]({%slug radchartview-features-panzoom%})
