---
title: Developer Focused Examples
page_title: Developer Focused Examples
description: Developer Focused Examples
slug: radmap-sdk-examples
tags: sdk,examples
published: True
position: 1
---

# Developer Focused Examples

The [Telerik XAML SDK repository](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/) provides additional demos for most of the Telerik UI for {% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}WPF{% endif %}{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}Silverlight{% endif %} controls. The examples demonstrate many specific user case scenarios, that might be really helpful. In this article you can find the complete list of all SDK examples for __RadMap__.

## List of all RadMap SDK examples:

{% if site.site_name == 'WPF' %}

* __[Click modes custom behavior](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ClickModesCustomBehavior)__ - RadMap supports both single and double mouse clicks. You can configure the behavior of the control in this respect using the MouseClickMode and MouseDoubleClickMode properties. These properties support the following predefined values: Center, None, ZoomPointToCenter, ZoomToPoint. In order to execute custom logic on click or double click, set these properties to None and handle the MapMouseClick and MapMouseDoubleClick events of RadMap.
* __[Click modes predefined values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ClickModesPredefinedValues)__ - RadMap supports both single and double mouse clicks. You can configure the behavior of the control in this respect using the MouseClickMode and MouseDoubleClickMode properties. These properties support the following predefined values: Center, None, ZoomPointToCenter, ZoomToPoint.
* __[Default layout disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/DefaultLayoutDisabled)__ - The default layout of RadMap is represented by the UI controls that appear in it. In case you want to hide all of these controls and create your custom layout, you can set the UseDefaultLayout property of RadMap to false.
* __[Distance and scale distance unit](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/DistanceAndScaleDistanceUnit)__ - RadMap uses two measure units for distance - mile and kilometer. The measure units determine the placement of the MapShapes, as their width and height are measured in the selected unit. You can specify the unit using the DistanceUnit property of RadMap. The default value is Kilometer.
* __[Distance and scale external map scale](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/DistanceAndScaleExternalMapScale)__ - You can use the MapScale control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapScale control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapScale to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapScale control using its ScaleVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap.
* __[Distance and scale scale visibility](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/DistanceAndScaleScaleVisibility)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapScale control in the default layout of RadMap using the ScaleVisibility property.
* __[Dynamic layer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/DynamicLayer)__ - The DynamicLayer allows you to display additional data on top of the displayed map. In contrast to InformationLayer which processes all items in a collection, the DynamicLayer requests items to process. It makes favour when thousands of items are available (pictures of POIs, for example). Your application can select what pictures are suitable for given location and zoom factor and return only these ones.
* __[External map mouse location indicator](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ExternalMapMouseLocationIndicator)__ - You can use the MapMouseLocationIndicator control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapMouseLocationIndicator control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapMouseLocationIndicator to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapMouseLocationIndicator control using its MouseLocationIndicatorVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap.
* __[Geocode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/Geocode)__ - The RadMap provides unified geocoding architecture, which uses the functionality of the different geocoding services. This allows you to easily convert a location point to an address and the opposite - address to a location point.
* __[How to bring aLocation into view](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToBringALocationIntoView)__ - In order to bring a location point into view, you have to set the Center property of the RadMap property.
* __[Display Information From Custom Shapefile](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToDisplayInformationFromCustomShapefile)__ - 
The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map.
* __[Custom commands for Map command bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToImplementCustomCommandsForMapCommandBar)__ - 
It is now possible to customize the default set of commands in the MapCommandBar UI for every map provider. Every custom command should be described by a CommandDescription instance that you need to add to the respective MapProvider.Commands collection (if your custom command is RoutedCommand / RoutedUICommand, you can add the associated CommandBinding to the MapProvider.CommandBindingCollection).
* __[How to implement custom map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToImplementCustomMapProvider)__ - You can create a custom map provider and use it with RadMap. In order to do this, you should implement a custom provider and custom map source that inherit TiledProvider or ImageProvider and TiledMapSource or ImageMapSource.
* __[Custom Zoom Levels For Map Zoom Bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToImplementCustomZoomLevelsForMapZoomBar)__ - 
You can customize the default preset zoom levels in the MapZoomBar UI for every map provider. You can add custom zoom level through the MapZoomBar.RegisterSetZoomLevelCommand(zoomLevel, commandText, dataTemplate, imageUri) method.
* __[How to put a mark on the clicked location](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToPutAMarkOnTheClickedLocation)__ - 
If you want to mark the position where the user has clicked, you have to handle the MapMouseClick event and add the desired mark element to the InformationLayer of the RadMap on the clicked location.
* __[Resize Map Shapes With Mouse](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToResizeMapShapesWithMouseDragging)__ - 
RadMap provides a rich set of geocoordinate-enabled shapes that can be defined and displayed onto the map surface .There are scenarios, however, where you would like to do more than just position a shape onto the map. This example will demonstrate how to manipulate each individual segment of line/polyline/polygon shape based on mouse input from the user. For example we will select (highlight) a point, and drag the selected object to another location on the map – modifying in this way the shape or the line segment.
* __[How to restrict panning and zooming region](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToRestrictPanningAndZoomingRegion)__ - You can restrict the zooming and panning region in RadMap by setting the RadMap.MinZoomLevel / RadMap.MaxZoomLevel properties and the RadMap.GeoBounds property.
* __[How to select map shapes](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToSelectMapShapes)__ - RadMap provides a rich set of geocoordinate-enabled shapes that can be defined and displayed onto the map surface. There are scenarios, however, where you would like to do more than just position a shape onto the map. This example will demonstrate how to manipulate each individual segment of line/polyline/polygon shape based on mouse input from the user. For example we will select (highlight) a Line segment of the Polyline and set a green color for it. The Polyline itself will be colored blue and on click it will become red. All these customizations will be made through styles.
* __[Ste The Best View For The Information Layer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/HowToSetTheBestViewForTheInformationLayer)__ - 
In case you have a set of elements displayed by the InformationLayer, you might want to be able to display all of them in the visible area of the map and to set the optimal zoom for them. This can be done by using the Best View feature of the RadMap. To use it you have to call the GetBestView() method of the InformationLayer and pass its items to it. This method will return a LocationRect object which represents the best view for the items in the InformationLayer. You can use it in order to adjust the RadMap center and zoom level.
* __[Information layer clustered data source](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerClusteredDataSource)__ - Clustered data source provides functionality for grouping of the geographic locations using some criteria. The default implementation uses distance in degrees between 2 locations as grouping condition. It can be changed at any time by creation of the new class which implements IClusterItemGenerator or which inherits from the ClusterItemGenerator class (the default built-in implementation of the grouping condition). The clustered data source provides information layer with 2 kinds of items: ClusterItem and ClusteredItem. The first one represents cluster which contains list of the items grouped by some criteria. The second one represents wrapper around original data with some additional functionality.
* __[Information layer colorizer colors](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerColors)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.
* __[Information layer colorizer mode auto](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerModeAuto)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Auto mode.
* __[Information layer colorizer mode count](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerModeCount)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Count mode.
* __[Information layer colorizer mode ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerModeRanges)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Ranges mode.
* __[Information Layer Colorizer Mode Ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerModeRangesPredefinedColors)__ - 
The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the RangesPredefinedColors mode.
* __[Information layer colorizer mode step](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerColorizerModeStep)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Step mode.
* __[Information Layer Data Binding](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerDataBindingInDataTemplate)__ - 
When displaying a map, you might also want to visualize some data on it in the form of hot spots, pin points, etc. The InformationLayer object allows you to dynamically load and display map markers via data binding. This example demonstrates how you can use attached properties to configure the dynamically created map markers.
* __[Information Layer Data Mappings](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerDataBindingWithDataMappings)__ - 
When displaying a map, you might also want to visualize some data on it in the form of hot spots, pin points, etc. The InformationLayer object allows you to dynamically load and display map markers via data binding. This example demonstrates how you can use DataMappings to configure the dynamically created map markers.
* __[Information layer framework elements](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerFrameworkElements)__ - One of the objects that can be displayed inside the InformationLayer is the FrameworkElement. This means that you can actually display anything inside the InformationLayer. If you want to compose more than one control for your element, you just have to wrap them inside one of the layout controls.
* __[Information layer graph colorizer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerGraphColorizer)__ - The RadMap provides Graph Colorizer which sets filling to the Map shapes using the coloring of graph approach as its name implies. In short when any 2 shapes which have common border they will be colored differently.
* __[Information layer hot spots](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerHotSpots)__ - Normally the elements placed in the Information Layer get positioned via Location coordinates. In this way their top-left corner will coincide with the point representing the location. When using FrameworkElements in your InformationLayer you can additionally arrange them around the point via their HorizontalAlignment and VerticalAlignment properties. To adjust the position of the element via the HotSpot you have to set its X and Y properties. Their value can be measured in different units. To choose the desired unit you have to set the XUnits and YUnits properties.
* __[Information layer initialize completed](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerInitializeCompleted)__ - The InitializeCompleted event of RadMap fires when the initialization of the map provider completes.
* __[Information layer map ellipse](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapEllipse)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapEllipse.
* __[Information layer map line](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapLine)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapLine.
* __[Information layer map path](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapPath)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPath.
* __[Information layer map polygon](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapPolygon)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPolygon.
* __[Information layer map polyline](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapPolyline)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPolyline.
* __[Information layer map rectangle](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapRectangle)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapRectangle.
* __[Information layer map shape extended data](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapShapeExtendedData)__ - The MapShape object exposes a property called ExtendedData. It allows you to attach additional data to the shape. For example, if a shape represents a country on the map, you can use the ExtendedData property to attach information about the country such as Area, Capitol, Population etc. Later this data can be accessed through the ExtendedData property.
* __[Information layer map shape fill](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapShapeFill)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.
* __[Information layer map shape map shape fill](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapShapeMapShapeFill)__ - The MapShape objects expose two specific properties - ShapeFill and HightlightFill. The first one is applied to the shapes, when they are in their normal state. The HighlightFill gets applied when the mouse is over the shape. The two properties are of type MapShapeFill. The MapShapeFill object allows you not only to specify the Fill color, but to modify the stroke as well.
* __[Information layer map shape properties](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerMapShapeProperties)__ - When using MapShape objects there are several ways to control their appearance. This example demonstrates the trivial properties provided by the framework such as Fill, Stroke, StrokeThickness.
* __[Information layer pin points](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerPinPoints)__ - The MapPinPoint class is designed to represent Point objects from KML files. However, it can be also used outside the KML context in order to mark points of interest (POIs) or something else.
* __[Information layer unbound mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/InformationLayerUnboundMode)__ - The InformationLayer allows you to display additional data on top of the displayed map. This data can be in the form of simple framework elements, pin points or map shapes. As the InformationLayer derives from the ItemsControl class you are able to display more than one item in one and the same InformationLayer. You can even data bind the InformationLayer to a collection of locations. This example demonstrates the unbound mode of the InformationLayer.
* __[KML manual reading](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/KMLManualReading)__ - The RadMap provides support for stunning map overlays through its KML-import feature. Once you have the desired set of features (place marks, images, polygons, textual descriptions, etc.) encoded in KML, you can easily import the data and visualize it through the RadMap control. In this way you can easily visualize complex shapes like country's borders on the map and fill the separate shapes with different colors in order to achieve a sort of grouping.The RadMap allows you to manually read the file, by which you are able to get the shapes collection, without to automatically insert it into the layer. For this purpose you have to use the KMLReader static class.
* __[KML map shape reader](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/KMLMapShapeReader)__ - The RadMap provides support for stunning map overlays through its KML-import feature. Once you have the desired set of features (place marks, images, polygons, textual descriptions, etc.) encoded in KML, you can easily import the data and visualize it through the RadMap control. In this way you can easily visualize complex shapes like country's borders on the map and fill the separate shapes with different colors in order to achieve a sort of grouping.To read your data you have to use the MapShapeReader class. To pass the desired KML file you have to use the Source property of the MapShapeReader and pass the Uri to the desired .kml file to it. This will automatically generate shapes according to the data inside the file.
* __[Map legend](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/MapLegend)__ - The RadMap control introduces the MapLegend object. It allows you to display a legend for a particular Information Layer inside the RadMap control.
* __[Map shape reader tool tip format](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/MapShapeReaderToolTipFormat)__ - The ToolTipFormat property of MapShapeReader is the simplest way to create a single-line tooltip. The property is of type string and allow you to display both the value of a single property of the extended data and combination of the values of different extended data properties.
* __[Map shape reader tool tip style](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/MapShapeReaderToolTipStyle)__ - The ToolTipStyle property of MapShapeReader allows you to specify a Style of the tooltip that gets displayed. The Style should target the ToolTip control.
* __[Map shape reader tool tip template](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/MapShapeReaderToolTipTemplate)__ - The ToolTipTemplate property of MapShapeReader allows you to define a DataTemplate for the tooltip. This way you are able to create more complex layouts like multiline content or content containing different visual elements like Borders, Images etc.
* __[Mini map](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/MiniMap)__ - This example demonstrates the Mini Map feature of RadMap.
* __[Navigation disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/NavigationDisabled)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapNavigation control in the default layout of RadMap using the NavigationVisibility property.
* __[Navigation external map navigation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/NavigationExternalMapNavigation)__ - You can use the MapNavigation control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapNavigation control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapNavigation to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapNavigation control using its NavigationVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap.
* __[Providers bing map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ProvidersBingMapProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the BingMapProvider.
* __[Providers bing map traffic provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ProvidersBingMapTrafficProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the BingMapTrafficProvider.
* __[Providers empty provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ProvidersEmptyProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the EmptyProvider.
* __[Providers open street map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ProvidersOpenStreetMapProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the OpenStreetMapProvider.
* __[Providers uri image provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ProvidersUriImageProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the UriImageProvider.
* __[Routing](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/Routing)__ - The RadMap provides unified route search architecture which uses functionality of the different routing services. This allows you to calculate route between different locations on the map.
* __[Search](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/Search)__ - The RadMap control allows you to implement search functionality, that will allow the user to search for a specific location on the map. The search is performed by using Search Providers, which communicate with the respective Map Provider's services. With this feature available you are able to build an UI that allows the user to input search criteria and execute a search.
* __[Shapefile manual reading](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ShapefileManualReading)__ - The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map. The RadMap allows you to manually read the file, by which you are able to get the shapes collection, without to automatically insert it into the layer. For this purpose you have to use the ShapeFileReader static class.
* __[Shapefile map shape reader](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ShapefileMapShapeReader)__ - The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map. To read your data you have to use the MapShapeReader class. To pass the desired shapefile you have to use the Source property of the MapShapeReader and pass the Uri to the desired .shp file to it.
* __[SQL geospatial data](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/SQLGeospatialData)__ - 
RadGeospatialDataReader enables you to bind RadMap to SQL Geospatial data. It allows generating map shapes from any IEnumerable instance (for example a row collection) which contains a property with geospatial data in Wkt (Well known text) or Wkb (Well known binary) format. The Source property and the GeospatialPropertyName propertyare used to specify the IEnumerable instance and the name of the property which contains a Geospatial data.
* __[View modes disable command](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ViewModesDisableCommand)__ - RadMap allows you to bring the map in several view modes. After setting the desired view mode, the user is also capable of changing the view, depending on his/her needs. He/She can do it via the button with the eye-like icon, which represents the command bar. This example demonstrates how you can disable a specific command for a provider, e.g. changing the visibility of the map labels.
* __[View modes external map command bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ViewModesExternalMapCommandBar)__ - You can use the MapCommandBar control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapCommandBar control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapCommandBar to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapCommandBar control using its CommandBarVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap.
* __[View modes setting view mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ViewModesSettingViewMode)__ - The RadMap allows you to bring the map in several view modes. After setting the desired view mode, the user is also capable of changing the view, depending on his/her needs. He/She can do it via the button with the eye-like icon, which represents the command bar.
* __[Visualization layer clustering](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerClustering)__ - The VisualizationLayer supports the Clustering feature. It allows grouping of items according to a condition. The following example demonstrates how to use the Clustering feature to display the airports of USA.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer colors](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerColors)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode auto](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeAuto)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Auto mode.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode count](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeCount)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Count mode.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeRanges)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Ranges mode.
* __[Visualization Layer Colorizer Mode Ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeRangesPredefinedColors)__ - 
The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the RangesPredefinedColors mode.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode step](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeStep)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Step mode.
* __[Visualization layer graph colorizer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerGraphColorizer)__ - The RadMap provides Graph Colorizer which sets filling to the Map shapes using the coloring of graph approach as its name implies. In short when any 2 shapes which have common border they will be colored differently.
* __[Visualization layer items selection](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerItemsSelection)__ - This example demonstrates how to implement items selection for point-type objects (i.e. objects which represent single location on the map).
* __[Visualization layer shape selection](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/VisualizationLayerShapeSelection)__ - This example demonstrates how to implement items selection feature for the map shape objects. The VisualizationLayer handles selection state of the map shape objects automatically so we do not need to do anything specific. We just have to set filling for the different states of the shape objects: ShapeFill, HighlightFill and SelectedFill
* __[Zooming disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ZoomingDisabled)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapZoomBar control in the default layout of RadMap using the ZoomBarVisibility property.
* __[Zooming external map zoom bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ZoomingExternalMapZoomBar)__ - You can use the MapZoomBar control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapZoomBar control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapZoomBar to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapZoomBar control using its ZoomBarVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap.
* __[Zooming preset with custom label](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/WPF/ZoomingPresetWithCustomLabel)__ - This example demonstrates how you can add a custom zoom level to the MapZoomBar.
{% endif %}
{% if site.site_name == 'Silverlight' %}
* __[Click modes custom behavior](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ClickModesCustomBehavior/ClickModesCustomBehavior)__ - RadMap supports both single and double mouse clicks. You can configure the behavior of the control in this respect using the MouseClickMode and MouseDoubleClickMode properties. These properties support the following predefined values: Center, None, ZoomPointToCenter, ZoomToPoint. In order to execute custom logic on click or double click, set these properties to None and handle the MapMouseClick and MapMouseDoubleClick events of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Click modes predefined values](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ClickModesPredefinedValues/ClickModesPredefinedValues)__ - RadMap supports both single and double mouse clicks. You can configure the behavior of the control in this respect using the MouseClickMode and MouseDoubleClickMode properties. These properties support the following predefined values: Center, None, ZoomPointToCenter, ZoomToPoint.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Default layout disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/DefaultLayoutDisabled/DefaultLayoutDisabled)__ - The default layout of RadMap is represented by the UI controls that appear in it. In case you want to hide all of these controls and create your custom layout, you can set the UseDefaultLayout property of RadMap to false.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Distance and scale distance unit](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/DistanceAndScaleDistanceUnit/DistanceAndScaleDistanceUnit)__ - RadMap uses two measure units for distance - mile and kilometer. The measure units determine the placement of the MapShapes, as their width and height are measured in the selected unit. You can specify the unit using the DistanceUnit property of RadMap. The default value is Kilometer.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Distance and scale external map scale](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/DistanceAndScaleExternalMapScale/DistanceAndScaleExternalMapScale)__ - You can use the MapScale control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapScale control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapScale to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapScale control using its ScaleVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Distance and scale scale visibility](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/DistanceAndScaleScaleVisibility/DistanceAndScaleScaleVisibility)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapScale control in the default layout of RadMap using the ScaleVisibility property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Dynamic layer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/DynamicLayer/DynamicLayer)__ - The DynamicLayer allows you to display additional data on top of the displayed map. In contrast to InformationLayer which processes all items in a collection, the DynamicLayer requests items to process. It makes favour when thousands of items are available (pictures of POIs, for example). Your application can select what pictures are suitable for given location and zoom factor and return only these ones.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[External map mouse location indicator](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ExternalMapMouseLocationIndicator/ExternalMapMouseLocationIndicator)__ - You can use the MapMouseLocationIndicator control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapMouseLocationIndicator control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapMouseLocationIndicator to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapMouseLocationIndicator control using its MouseLocationIndicatorVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Geocode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/Geocode/Geocode)__ - The RadMap provides unified geocoding architecture, which uses the functionality of the different geocoding services. This allows you to easily convert a location point to an address and the opposite - address to a location point.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to bring aLocation into view](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToBringALocationIntoView/HowToBringALocationIntoView)__ - In order to bring a location point into view, you have to set the Center property of the RadMap property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Custom commands for Map command bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToCustomCommandsForMapCommandBar/HowToCustomCommandsForMapCommandBar)__ - 
It is now possible to customize the default set of commands in the MapCommandBar UI for every map provider. Every custom command should be described by a CommandDescription instance that you need to add to the respective MapProvider.Commands collection (if your custom command is RoutedCommand / RoutedUICommand, you can add the associated CommandBinding to the MapProvider.CommandBindingCollection).

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Custom Zoom Levels For Map Zoom Bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToCustomZoomLevelsForMapZoomBar/HowToCustomZoomLevelsForMapZoomBar)__ - 
You can customize the default preset zoom levels in the MapZoomBar UI for every map provider. You can add custom zoom level through the MapZoomBar.RegisterSetZoomLevelCommand(zoomLevel, commandText, dataTemplate, imageUri) method.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to display info from custom shapefile](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToDisplayInfoFromCustomShapefile/HowToDisplayInfoFromCustomShapefile)__ - The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to implement custom map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToImplementCustomMapProvider/HowToImplementCustomMapProvider)__ - You can create a custom map provider and use it with RadMap. In order to do this, you should implement a custom provider and custom map source that inherit TiledProvider or ImageProvider and TiledMapSource or ImageMapSource.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to put a mark on the clicked location](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToPutAMarkOnTheClickedLocation/HowToPutAMarkOnTheClickedLocation)__ - 
If you want to mark the position where the user has clicked, you have to handle the MapMouseClick event and add the desired mark element to the InformationLayer of the RadMap on the clicked location.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to resize map shapes with mouse dragging](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToResizeMapShapesWithMouseDragging/HowToResizeMapShapesWithMouseDragging)__ - RadMap provides a rich set of geocoordinate-enabled shapes that can be defined and displayed onto the map surface .There are scenarios, however, where you would like to do more than just position a shape onto the map. This example will demonstrate how to manipulate each individual segment of line/polyline/polygon shape based on mouse input from the user. For example we will select (highlight) a point, and drag the selected object to another location on the map – modifying in this way the shape or the line segment.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to restrict panning and zooming region](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToRestrictPanningAndZoomingRegion/HowToRestrictPanningAndZoomingRegion)__ - You can restrict the zooming and panning region in RadMap by setting the RadMap.MinZoomLevel / RadMap.MaxZoomLevel properties and the RadMap.GeoBounds property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to select map shapes](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToSelectMapShapes/HowToSelectMapShapes)__ - RadMap provides a rich set of geocoordinate-enabled shapes that can be defined and displayed onto the map surface. There are scenarios, however, where you would like to do more than just position a shape onto the map. This example will demonstrate how to manipulate each individual segment of line/polyline/polygon shape based on mouse input from the user. For example we will select (highlight) a Line segment of the Polyline and set a green color for it. The Polyline itself will be colored blue and on click it will become red. All these customizations will be made through styles.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[How to set the best view for information layer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/HowToSetTheBestViewForInformationLayer/HowToSetTheBestViewForInformationLayer)__ - In case you have a set of elements displayed by the InformationLayer, you might want to be able to display all of them in the visible area of the map and to set the optimal zoom for them. This can be done by using the Best View feature of the RadMap. To use it you have to call the GetBestView() method of the InformationLayer and pass its items to it. This method will return a LocationRect object which represents the best view for the items in the InformationLayer. You can use it in order to adjust the RadMap center and zoom level.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer clustered data source](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerClusteredDataSource/InformationLayerClusteredDataSource)__ - Clustered data source provides functionality for grouping of the geographic locations using some criteria. The default implementation uses distance in degrees between 2 locations as grouping condition. It can be changed at any time by creation of the new class which implements IClusterItemGenerator or which inherits from the ClusterItemGenerator class (the default built-in implementation of the grouping condition). The clustered data source provides information layer with 2 kinds of items: ClusterItem and ClusteredItem. The first one represents cluster which contains list of the items grouped by some criteria. The second one represents wrapper around original data with some additional functionality. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Information layer colorizer colors](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerColorizerColors/InformationLayerColorizerColors)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer colorizer mode auto](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerColorizerModeAuto/InformationLayerColorizerModeAuto)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Auto mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer colorizer mode count](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerColorizerModeCount/InformationLayerColorizerModeCount)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Count mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer colorizer mode ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerColorizerModeRanges/InformationLayerColorizerModeRanges)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Ranges mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer colorizer mode step](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerColorizerModeStep/InformationLayerColorizerModeStep)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Step mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer data binding data mappings](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerDataBindingDataMappings/InformationLayerDataBindingDataMappings)__ - When displaying a map, you might also want to visualize some data on it in the form of hot spots, pin points, etc. The InformationLayer object allows you to dynamically load and display map markers via data binding. This example demonstrates how you can use DataMappings to configure the dynamically created map markers.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer data binding data template](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerDataBindingDataTemplate/InformationLayerDataBindingDataTemplate)__ - When displaying a map, you might also want to visualize some data on it in the form of hot spots, pin points, etc. The InformationLayer object allows you to dynamically load and display map markers via data binding. This example demonstrates how you can use attached properties to configure the dynamically created map markers.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer framework elements](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerFrameworkElements/InformationLayerFrameworkElements)__ - One of the objects that can be displayed inside the InformationLayer is the FrameworkElement. This means that you can actually display anything inside the InformationLayer. If you want to compose more than one control for your element, you just have to wrap them inside one of the layout controls.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer graph colorizer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerGraphColorizer/InformationLayerGraphColorizer)__ - The RadMap provides Graph Colorizer which sets filling to the Map shapes using the coloring of graph approach as its name implies. In short when any 2 shapes which have common border they will be colored differently.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer hot spots](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerHotSpots/InformationLayerHotSpots)__ - Normally the elements placed in the Information Layer get positioned via Location coordinates. In this way their top-left corner will coincide with the point representing the location. When using FrameworkElements in your InformationLayer you can additionally arrange them around the point via their HorizontalAlignment and VerticalAlignment properties. To adjust the position of the element via the HotSpot you have to set its X and Y properties. Their value can be measured in different units. To choose the desired unit you have to set the XUnits and YUnits properties. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Information layer initialize completed](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerInitializeCompleted/InformationLayerInitializeCompleted)__ - The InitializeCompleted event of RadMap fires when the initialization of the map provider completes.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map ellipse](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapEllipse/InformationLayerMapEllipse)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapEllipse.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map line](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapLine/InformationLayerMapLine)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapLine.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map path](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapPath/InformationLayerMapPath)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPath.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map polygon](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapPolygon/InformationLayerMapPolygon)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPolygon.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map polyline](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapPolyline/InformationLayerMapPolyline)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapPolyline.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map rectangle](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapRectangle/InformationLayerMapRectangle)__ - The RadMap control provides you with a set of shape objects, which are specifically designed to work with the RadMap. This example demonstrates MapRectangle.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map shape extended data](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapShapeExtendedData/InformationLayerMapShapeExtendedData)__ - The MapShape object exposes a property called ExtendedData. It allows you to attach additional data to the shape. For example, if a shape represents a country on the map, you can use the ExtendedData property to attach information about the country such as Area, Capitol, Population etc. Later this data can be accessed through the ExtendedData property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map shape fill](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapShapeFill/InformationLayerMapShapeFill)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer map shape map shape fill](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapShapeMapShapeFill/InformationLayerMapShapeMapShapeFill)__ - The MapShape objects expose two specific properties - ShapeFill and HightlightFill. The first one is applied to the shapes, when they are in their normal state. The HighlightFill gets applied when the mouse is over the shape. The two properties are of type MapShapeFill. The MapShapeFill object allows you not only to specify the Fill color, but to modify the stroke as well. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Information layer map shape properties](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerMapShapeProperties/InformationLayerMapShapeProperties)__ - When using MapShape objects there are several ways to control their appearance. This example demonstrates the trivial properties provided by the framework such as Fill, Stroke, StrokeThickness.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer pin points](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerPinPoints/InformationLayerPinPoints)__ - The MapPinPoint class is designed to represent Point objects from KML files. However, it can be also used outside the KML context in order to mark points of interest (POIs) or something else.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer ranges predefined colors](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerRangesPredefinedColors/InformationLayerRangesPredefinedColors)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the RangesPredefinedColors mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Information layer unbound mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/InformationLayerUnboundMode/InformationLayerUnboundMode)__ - The InformationLayer allows you to display additional data on top of the displayed map. This data can be in the form of simple framework elements, pin points or map shapes. As the InformationLayer derives from the ItemsControl class you are able to display more than one item in one and the same InformationLayer. You can even data bind the InformationLayer to a collection of locations. This example demonstrates the unbound mode of the InformationLayer.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[KML manual reading](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/KMLManualReading/KMLManualReading)__ - The RadMap provides support for stunning map overlays through its KML-import feature. Once you have the desired set of features (place marks, images, polygons, textual descriptions, etc.) encoded in KML, you can easily import the data and visualize it through the RadMap control. In this way you can easily visualize complex shapes like country's borders on the map and fill the separate shapes with different colors in order to achieve a sort of grouping.The RadMap allows you to manually read the file, by which you are able to get the shapes collection, without to automatically insert it into the layer. For this purpose you have to use the KMLReader static class. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[KML map shape reader](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/KMLMapShapeReader/KMLMapShapeReader)__ - The RadMap provides support for stunning map overlays through its KML-import feature. Once you have the desired set of features (place marks, images, polygons, textual descriptions, etc.) encoded in KML, you can easily import the data and visualize it through the RadMap control. In this way you can easily visualize complex shapes like country's borders on the map and fill the separate shapes with different colors in order to achieve a sort of grouping.To read your data you have to use the MapShapeReader class. To pass the desired KML file you have to use the Source property of the MapShapeReader and pass the Uri to the desired .kml file to it. This will automatically generate shapes according to the data inside the file. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Map legend](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/MapLegend/MapLegend)__ - The RadMap control introduces the MapLegend object. It allows you to display a legend for a particular Information Layer inside the RadMap control.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Map shape reader tool tip format](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/MapShapeReaderToolTipFormat/MapShapeReaderToolTipFormat)__ - The ToolTipFormat property of MapShapeReader is the simplest way to create a single-line tooltip. The property is of type string and allow you to display both the value of a single property of the extended data and combination of the values of different extended data properties.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Map shape reader tool tip style](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/MapShapeReaderToolTipStyle/MapShapeReaderToolTipStyle)__ - The ToolTipStyle property of MapShapeReader allows you to specify a Style of the tooltip that gets displayed. The Style should target the ToolTip control.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Map shape reader tool tip template](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/MapShapeReaderToolTipTemplate/MapShapeReaderToolTipTemplate)__ - The ToolTipTemplate property of MapShapeReader allows you to define a DataTemplate for the tooltip. This way you are able to create more complex layouts like multiline content or content containing different visual elements like Borders, Images etc.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Mini map](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/MiniMap/MiniMap)__ - This example demonstrates the Mini Map feature of RadMap.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Navigation disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/NavigationDisabled/NavigationDisabled)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapNavigation control in the default layout of RadMap using the NavigationVisibility property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Navigation external map navigation](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/NavigationExternalMapNavigation/NavigationExternalMapNavigation)__ - You can use the MapNavigation control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapNavigation control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapNavigation to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapNavigation control using its NavigationVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Providers bing map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ProvidersBingMapProvider/ProvidersBingMapProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the BingMapProvider.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Providers bing map traffic provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ProvidersBingMapTrafficProvider/ProvidersBingMapTrafficProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the BingMapTrafficProvider.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Providers empty provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ProvidersEmptyProvider/ProvidersEmptyProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the EmptyProvider.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Providers open street map provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ProvidersOpenStreetMapProvider/ProvidersOpenStreetMapProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the OpenStreetMapProvider.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Providers uri image provider](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ProvidersUriImageProvider/ProvidersUriImageProvider)__ - The RadMap control doesn't display a map on itself, it needs a map provider from which to consume the required data. This example demonstrates the UriImageProvider.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Routing](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/Routing/Routing)__ - The RadMap provides unified route search architecture which uses functionality of the different routing services. This allows you to calculate route between different locations on the map.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Search](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/Search/Search)__ - The RadMap control allows you to implement search functionality, that will allow the user to search for a specific location on the map. The search is performed by using Search Providers, which communicate with the respective Map Provider's services. With this feature available you are able to build an UI that allows the user to input search criteria and execute a search.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Shapefile manual reading](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ShapefileManualReading/ShapefileManualReading)__ - The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map. The RadMap allows you to manually read the file, by which you are able to get the shapes collection, without to automatically insert it into the layer. For this purpose you have to use the ShapeFileReader static class. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Shapefile map shape reader](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ShapefileMapShapeReader/ShapefileMapShapeReader)__ - The ESRI Shapefiles or simply the shapefiles are popular format for storing geographical data. The files spatially describe geometries like lines, polylines and polygons. These geometries may represent different geographical objects such as countries, roads, rivers, lakes etc. Via a software that supports the format, the geometries can be translated properly on a map. To read your data you have to use the MapShapeReader class. To pass the desired shapefile you have to use the Source property of the MapShapeReader and pass the Uri to the desired .shp file to it. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[SQL geospatial data](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/SQLGeospatialData/SQLGeospatialData)__ - 
RadGeospatialDataReader enables you to bind RadMap to SQL Geospatial data. It allows generating map shapes from any IEnumerable instance (for example a row collection) which contains a property with geospatial data in Wkt (Well known text) or Wkb (Well known binary) format. The Source property and the GeospatialPropertyName propertyare used to specify the IEnumerable instance and the name of the property which contains a Geospatial data.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[View modes disable command](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ViewModesDisableCommand/ViewModesDisableCommand)__ - RadMap allows you to bring the map in several view modes. After setting the desired view mode, the user is also capable of changing the view, depending on his/her needs. He/She can do it via the button with the eye-like icon, which represents the command bar. This example demonstrates how you can disable a specific command for a provider, e.g. changing the visibility of the map labels. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[View modes external map command bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ViewModesExternalMapCommandBar/ViewModesExternalMapCommandBar)__ - You can use the MapCommandBar control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapCommandBar control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapCommandBar to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapCommandBar control using its CommandBarVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[View modes setting view mode](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ViewModesSettingViewMode/ViewModesSettingViewMode)__ - The RadMap allows you to bring the map in several view modes. After setting the desired view mode, the user is also capable of changing the view, depending on his/her needs. He/She can do it via the button with the eye-like icon, which represents the command bar.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization layer clustering](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerClustering/VisualizationLayerClustering)__ - The VisualizationLayer supports the Clustering feature. It allows grouping of items according to a condition. The following example demonstrates how to use the Clustering feature to display the airports of USA.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Visualization layer colorizer colors](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerColors/VisualizationLayerColorizerColors)__ - The ColorMeasureScale can apply a different color to each range it creates. You are able to specify the desired set of colors not only for the normal fill of the shapes, but for the highlighted one too. This is done by using the ShapeFillCollection and HighlightFillCollection properties. They are collections of MapShapeFill objects.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode auto](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeAuto/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeAuto)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Auto mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode count](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeCount/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeCount)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Count mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeRanges/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeRanges)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Ranges mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization layer colorizer mode step](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeStep/VisualizationLayerColorizerModeStep)__ - The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the Step mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Visualization Layer Colorizer Mode Ranges](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerColorizerPredefinedColors/ColorizerPredefinedColors)__ - 
The ColorMeasureScale splits the values passed through its ExtendedPropertyName property and associates a fill color and highlight color for each one. It can automatically create ranges in two ways. For that purpose you have to use the Mode property of the ColorMeasureScale object. This example demonstrates the RangesPredefinedColors mode.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Visualization layer graph colorizer](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerGraphColorizer/VisualizationLayerGraphColorizer)__ - The RadMap provides Graph Colorizer which sets filling to the Map shapes using the coloring of graph approach as its name implies. In short when any 2 shapes which have common border they will be colored differently.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Visualization layer items selection](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerItemsSelection/VisualizationLayerItemsSelection)__ - This example demonstrates how to implement items selection for point-type objects (i.e. objects which represent single location on the map).

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Visualization layer shape selection](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/VisualizationLayerShapeSelection/VisualizationLayerShapeSelection)__ - This example demonstrates how to implement items selection feature for the map shape objects. The VisualizationLayer handles selection state of the map shape objects automatically so we do not need to do anything specific. We just have to set filling for the different states of the shape objects: ShapeFill, HighlightFill and SelectedFill

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.
* __[Zooming disabled](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ZoomingDisabled/ZoomingDisabled)__ - You can change the Visibility of the MapZoomBar control in the default layout of RadMap using the ZoomBarVisibility property.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

* __[Zooming external map zoom bar](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ZoomingExternalMapZoomBar/ZoomingExternalMapZoomBar)__ - You can use the MapZoomBar control outside the RadMap control. In order to associate the external MapZoomBar control and the RadMap instance, set the MapControl property of MapZoomBar to the respective RadMap instance. You can configure the RadMap control not to show its default MapZoomBar control using its ZoomBarVisibility property or the UseDefaultLayout property that disables the default layout of RadMap. To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio. 
* __[Zooming preset with custom label](https://github.com/telerik/xaml-sdk/tree/master/Map/Silverlight/ZoomingPresetWithCustomLabel/ZoomingPresetWithCustomLabel)__ - This example demonstrates how you can add a custom zoom level to the MapZoomBar.

To see and run the example, please use the 'Open in VS' button and execute the project inside Visual Studio.

{% endif %}

>You can also check the [SDK Samples Browser]({%slug sdk-samples-browser%}) that provides a more convenient approach in exploring and executing the examples in the Telerik XAML SDK repository. The SDK Samples Browser application is available for download from [this link](http://demos.telerik.com/xaml-sdkbrowser/).